I chose to do this project because from my experience text analysis is not very common in sports analaytics compared to methods inovlving traditional or advanced basektball statistics. People who oppose the use of sports analytics often cite the existence of intangible traits in athletes that do not show up in box scores and stat sheets. These traits instead are captured by the "eye test" which would not show up in traditional analytics. These evaluations are often done by scouts, and though they do not show up in statistics, they are recorded in text in scouting reports. Text analysis seems like a good way to capture these intangible traits to give sports analytics a more complete picture of all the things that really impact the performance of players and the results of games. Sports analytics is a passion of mine so working on this project allows me to use the skills I learned in this class on something that interests me and is unique to other work in this field.

I used word clouds and counts because they illustrate common words and traits that are used to describe players of each "class." These words and traits could be the key to understanding potential reasons that some players were successful in the NBA while others did not enjoy as much success. Each group had players drafted from the earlier picks as well as the later picks in 2016 so they were all considered relatively even in terms of potential and talent entering the NBA. That being said, while the scouts may not have known this at the time, the reports could contain words that explain part of the distinguishing factors between levels of players. In additiona to analyzing single words, I also looked at bigrams to get more context about words. Bigrams have potential even more intereting because they can pair adjectives with traits to show at what level players utilize traits or skills.

I also did sentiment analysis because I wanted to see if there were more or less positive and negative remarks about players from any of the groups. I figured that they would all be generally positive since many of the payers from every group were impressive prospects entering the draft, but I thought there could be differences that would even show potential concerns with players who did not end up having long careers in the NBA.

I found the data on draftexpress.com by simply searching the internet for scouting reports. This turned out to be a great source for my project because it has scouting reports for every player drafted from every year since 1957. I chose to analyze the year 2016 because it is far enough in the past that the players have estabolished career trajectories by now, but still recent enough that the players are well known and still relevant and the scouting report style is still accurate to the modern day. It also had only scouting reports for the players at the time of the draft, with no scouting reports from NBA play. This is what I wanted my project to focus on so this particular draft worked perfectly for that and draftexpress.com had all the information I needed.

Link to 2016 draft site: http://www.draftexpress.com/nba-mock-history/2016/all/all/

I pasted all of these scouting reports into text files, one for each player group, and then read those in individually to my R code. In order to clean the data I needed to first take separate each sentence into one element by splitting the text at periods. Next I needed to transpose so that each sentence was a row. Then I removed any special characters that would make analyzing individual words or phrases difficult like parentheses and commas and dashes. Then I was able to tokenize and get one table of individual words and one of bigrams. I also needed to create an extensive list of stop words in addition to the stop words from the stop_words that were specific to these data sets. Player names are used frequently in scouting reports so player names needed to be stop words to do analysis. I also made generic basketball terms that would not be helpful like "nba," "ball," and "game" into stop words so that my word clouds and tables would only have meaningful words.