Ben Simmons is fresh off one of the most productive college seasons in recent memory, being the first player to average over 19 points, 11 rebounds and 4 assists per game since Ron Harper did so as a senior at Miami Ohio back in 1986. While Simmons put up terrific numbers individually, he struggled to help his team win games consistently at the college level, finishing the season a disappointing 19-14. After a blowout loss to Texas A&M in the SEC Tournament semifinals, LSU's season came to an end and Simmons' future became very clear when it was revealed he will be hiring LeBron James' agent to represent him in the draft. In terms of talent, there is quite a bit to like in Simmons' profile. He has ample size at 6'10, and a sturdy frame at around 240 pounds. While he does not possess great length, with a wingspan measured between 6'11 and 7'0, he is one of the most fluid and coordinated athletes you'll find. Simmons has superb quickness, incredible body control, long strides and can operate at different speeds in a nearly unprecedented way for a player his size. Few players in recent memory are as effective at grabbing a defensive rebound and igniting the fast break as Simmons is, and a sky-high 26% of his offensive possessions comes in these situations according to Synergy Sports Technology. In the half-court, Simmons is much more of a mixed bag. He saw some success operating with his back to the basket this season, but struggled when asked to act as a primary ball-handler and facilitator in pick and roll and isolation situations, partially due to LSU's very poor spacing. Simmons' best traits in the half-court revolves around his tremendous ball-handling and passing ability, as he has outstanding court vision and a knack for finding open teammates with bullet passes. He's one of just five players (Luke Walton, Danny Ferry, Nick Thompson and Jerald Honeycutt) in our extensive NCAA database to average over 5 assists per-40 minutes while standing 6'9 or taller, and is the only one to do so as a freshman. While Simmons doesn't show much range as a shooter, he has excellent touch with either hand around the basket, being highly creative and acrobatic with the way he can finish plays, sometimes above the rim with a head of steam. His average length and propensity for avoiding contact around the rim hurts his percentages as a finisher inside the paint (he converted a just-decent 55% of his attempts here in the half-court), but he is such a mismatch at his size that he's able to draw a huge amount of fouls and free throw attempts (9.8 per-40) to compensate. He also shows some ability to score inside the post with right-handed jump hooks and excellent footwork. He is devastating operating in isolation situations from the mid-post area as he's simply too quick and too creative with the ball for most big men to stay in front of. College opponents negated that somewhat by putting smaller players on him as the season moved on and double-teaming the post, but things could be different in the NBA with better spacing, superior teammates and more creative coaching adjustments than we saw this season. While Simmons makes his free throw attempts at a decent rate (67% at LSU), his outside shooting has always been considered the biggest weakness in his game. He's a 12/50 (24%) 3-point shooter in the 74 career games we have data on since he first appeared on the scene at the 2012 FIBA U-17 World Championship, and hasn't shown much progress in the past four years in this area, which is a major red-flag in today's NBA. Opponents were able to neutralize him very effectively in the half-court as the season moved on, simply backing five feet off him. Simmons would respond by getting very passive in turn, looking very conscious about firing up jumpers, even late in games when his team desperately needed him to be aggressive. To reach his full potential and effectively be paired with other players, Simmons will likely either need to significantly improve his jumper, or be surrounded by plenty of shooters at all times as a primary ball-handler. Defensively, Simmons has elite instincts and anticipation skills, as evidenced by the terrific 12.9 rebounds, 2.1 steals and .9 blocks he averages per-40 minutes. He sees loose balls coming off the rim in an uncanny way, and is able to react and go grab rebounds before anyone else. When engaged and motivated, Simmons shows the ability to defend a variety of different positions on the floor, moving his feet well enough to stay in front of wings and even guards, while possessing the strength needed to slow down most power forwards in the post. The problem is that Simmons rarely plays up to his full potential on this end of the floor. He often looks very lazy here, not making any effort whatsoever to close out on shooters and avoiding contact and physicality in a very concerning way when challenged by opposing players. He often resorts to swiping down at the ball aimlessly in hopes of generating a steal, instead of getting in a fundamentally sound stance and trying to stop his man from scoring. While the red flags around Simmons' defense were there from the moment he stepped on the floor at the college level, as LSU's season went on, he gradually gave less and less effort here, even in his team's most important games, which raised serious question marks about his competitiveness in NBA circles. There's little question that Simmons was unfairly labeled as a generational talent going into his freshman season by uninformed voices in the media. Now NBA teams picking at the top of the draft in June will need to figure out just how high his long-term upside is, and how well he fits in with their existing roster. Simmons' talent-level is unquestionably extraordinarily, and he could still develop into an incredibly unique mismatch in the NBA, particularly if he shows a willingness and openness to address his flaws. He'll have to improve his approach to the game significantly, though, if he's to reach his full potential. A late bloomer physically, Brandon Ingram got somewhat of a late start compared with other prospects in his class, only standing 6'2 as a high school freshman. He shot up almost eight inches over the next four years, but didn't establish himself as one of the very best prospects in his class until the end of his high school career, when an outstanding showing at the McDonald's All-American game and practices led to an invite to the Nike Hoop Summit following an injury to Henry Ellenson, the first call he had received from USA Basketball up until that point. It was at the Hoop Summit that we saw the first public measurements on Ingram, with his 7'3 wingspan and 9'1 ½ standing reach that is more like that of a NBA center than the small forward position he's mostly projected at. Still, at 196 pounds, the then 17-year old had (and still has) a long ways to go to fill out his lanky frame, something it looks like he should be able to do with his wide shoulders. The same can be said about Ingram reaching his athletic upside, which is very much a work in progress as it often is with players who hit late growth spurts. Ingram is extremely fluid for a player his size, possessing long strides and nice quickness getting off the floor, but does not show elite explosiveness at this point in time, struggling to turn the corner or finish above the rim through contact. Gaining strength in his lower body and core will be extremely important in unlocking his abilities as a creator, finisher and defender, as he's still in the gangly physical phase prospects in his mold often have to get past to reach their full potential. Nevertheless, Ingram played a substantial role for Duke this past season, one of the elite offenses in college basketball. 44% of his possessions came off isolations, pick and rolls (as the ball-handler), hand-offs and transition opportunities according to Synergy Sports Technology, which is more similar to the profile of most guards than your typical forward. While playing primarily power forward defensively, Coach K utilized Ingram as his primary creator at times, using his long strides to attack in the open court off defensive rebounds, as well as his ability to handle the ball and operate in one on one situations in the half-court. Ingram's high skill-level starts with his jump-shot, which was extremely reliable all season long, making 41% of his 3-pointers on nearly 200 attempts through 36 games. He's most dangerous with his feet set, hitting 42% of his catch and shoot jumpers on the season (1.247 PPP, 3rd best among all draft prospects behind Buddy Hield and Jamal Murray), as he has fluid and consistent mechanics, a quick release, and is very intelligent about the way he moves off the ball and finds open looks. Ingram has significant potential as a shot-creator as well, as he's an impressive ball-handler at his size, showing terrific footwork, and big, rangy strides attacking off the dribble. He mixes in jab-steps, shot-fakes, crossovers and hesitation moves to create space off the bounce, as the threat of his jumper means he needs to be respected at all times from the perimeter. It helps that he is both a willing and able passer, seeing the floor well at 6'10, being highly unselfish, even to a fault at times. As he continues to add strength, Ingram will be a significant mismatch for NBA defenses, as he's simply too big for most wing players, and too skilled for many power forwards in small-ball lineups. He can rise up and hit jumpers over the top of the defense if they back off him or use a smaller wing to try and slow him down, or go to work off the dribble with a more traditional big man checking him, finishing creatively around the basket from different angles using his length. Improving his ability to make shots off the dribble will be a major key in becoming a go-to guy potentially at the NBA level. He shoots a somewhat flat ball, converting just 30% of his 80 attempts this season. His lack of strength and explosiveness made it easier for defenders to get up in his body and knock him off his spots, and he can't always turn the corner and rise up over defenders at this stage of his development, looking somewhat upright with his very long legs, high hips and narrow lower body. Ingram struggled to finish around the basket at times against higher level competition, converting just 48% of his half-court looks inside the paint on the season overall (SST). He got to the free throw line at just a decent rate (5.6 per-40), and surprisingly struggled at times once there, making just 68% of his attempts. While he showed the willingness to go into the post and use his size and footwork, mostly to shoot smooth turnaround jumpers, he simply doesn't have the strength to operate in there consistently at this stage. Defensively is where Ingram surprised many this year with his underrated combination of toughness and competiveness. While his fundamentals need work, his size, length and reach gives him great versatility when paired with his willingness to get stops. He showed the ability to switch out onto guards effectively at times out of pick and rolls from the power forward position, sagging off and staying in front, while still getting a hand up to contest thanks to his 7'3 wingspan. With that said, Ingram still has a ways to go to become a more consistent defender, something that clearly didn't become a priority for him until arriving in college. He can get a little sleepy at times and lose his focus, closing out lackadaisically, standing around off the ball and looking hunched over in his stance guarding the perimeter. Duke had one of the smallest rotations in high major college basketball and couldn't afford for Ingram to get in foul trouble, which didn't always lead to him operating with the highest intensity at all times. Once again, getting stronger will help, as he tends to get caught up on screens quite a bit on the perimeter and can get pushed around inside the paint. Ingram has some other things working in his favor that should contribute significantly to him reaching his full potential. For one, he's the youngest collegiate player in this draft, not turning 19 until September. He could easily still be in high school, as he's younger than eight of the players who competed at this year's McDonald's All-American game. He draws rave reviews from everyone he's been around for his work ethic, character, and competitiveness, and is by all accounts the kind of person you'd like to build around for those who value team culture, being described as a “a no-maintenance guy” by his head coach at Duke. While he had a tremendous freshman season, being named ACC-Rookie of the Year and Second Team All-Conference, he doesn't appear anywhere close to reaching his ceiling. Few projected Ingram to get consideration as the #1 pick before the season started, but that's exactly what he did with the rapid improvement he made. Long considered a blue chip prospect, but steadily climbing the recruiting rankings over the course of his high school career at national power Wheeler HS in Alpharetta, Georgia, Jaylen Brown cemented his standing as a consensus top-five player in the high school class of 2015 as a senior before surprising some with a late spring commitment to Cuonzo Martin's Cal Golden Bears over the likes of Kentucky and Kansas. Averaging 14.6 points, 5.4 rebounds, and 2 assists per game as a true freshman, Brown was named Pac-12 Freshman of the Year and earned a spot on the All-Pac-12 First Team, solidifying himself as a top-10 pick despite plenty of ups and downs. Measured at 6'6.5 in shoes with a 7'0.5 wingspan and a 222-pound frame at the 2015 Nike Hoop Summit, the intrigue surrounding Brown starts with his prototypical tools for the small forward position. An explosive leaper in space with the strength to potentially spend some time at the power forward position at the next level depending on the matchup, Brown has long looked the part of a NBA wing. The challenge for Brown as a freshman was parlaying those tools into consistent on-court production. Asked to fill a substantial role in Cal's space-starved offense, Brown did most of his damage playing off the ball spotting up or filling lanes in transition, but was also granted significant opportunities to create for himself off the bounce in the half court. Given considerable freedom, the freshman scored just .853 points per possession over 17.2 possessions per game to rank 149th in scoring efficiency among the 173 players using over 17 opportunities per game according to Synergy Sports Technology. The sizeable role Brown played in Cal's oversized but underskilled lineups shined a spotlight on the good and bad elements of his offensive game, particularly in the half court. Coming out of the high school ranks with the reputation as a productive scorer, Brown shot 52% inside the arc, 39% from deep, and 70% from the line in the 50 games of stats we have for him in our database spanning his three seasons on the summer circuit at the prep level. Flashing the ability to make jump shots with range, but doing most of his damage as a slasher, the Georgia native with nothing short of spectacular at times on the AAU circuit. Shooting 48% inside the arc, 29% from three, and 65% from the line for the Golden Bears, Brown didn't have the easiest time translating his game to the college ranks. With 51% of his shot attempts in the half court coming from the perimeter, the mechanical issues with Brown's jump shot became clear. Timing his release differently shot-to-shot whether he's pulling up off the bounce under pressure or shooting catch and shoot jumpers in space, Brown's mechanics are not particularly reliable at this stage. He casually fades away on some attempts unnecessarily, sometimes holding the ball longer than others at the top of his shot. His combination of mechanical issues resulted in the unimpressive 31% he shot from the perimeter overall. As a slasher, Brown battled through bouts of inefficiency as well. Possessing a strong first step and impressive leaping ability off of one and two feet, Brown's fairly loose handle, lack of craftiness around the basket, and tendency to get tunnel vision and force shots into traffic led to his 45% shooting around the rim in the half court and top-100 leading per-40 minute pace adjusted turnover rate. While Cal's insistence on surrounding him with two to four non-shooters at all times didn't do him any favors, there's no doubt that his feel for the game is underdeveloped at this stage in his career, as evidenced by his poor -6.48 PPR, which is by far the worst passing metric among any non-big man in this draft. As much as Brown struggled, he had plenty of positive moments offensively as well. He scored the ball well inside throughout the middle portion of the season and found some amount of consistency with his jump shot in the later part of Cal's Pac-12 regular season schedule. He's capable of scoring effectively around the rim, his jump shot isn't broken, and he gets to the line very prolifically, even if he is aggressive to a fault at times. He proved to be a willing passer, dishing out a respectable 2.9 assists per-40 minutes pace adjusted, and scored impressively on the break, showing the ability to fill lanes or push the ball himself. Surrounded by better talent in a more up-tempo offense, Brown will likely have an easier time utilizing his superior physical tools and nose for getting to the basket in the open floor and half-court. Looking far more comfortable on the offensive end some nights than others, Brown clearly has untapped potential as a scorer. If he can clean up his mechanical issues as a shooter and ball-handler, he could look like an entirely different player on this end a few short years from now. Not turning 20 until October, a key element of Brown's appeal at the moment is what he could become on this end after some grooming at the NBA level. Largely the same things about Brown's offense can be said about him defensively. He has all the tools to be successful and potentially even defend multiple positions down the road, but struggled at times with his focus off the ball and discipline defending one-on-one. He had some flashes using his strength and lateral quickness to apply ball pressure impressively around the arc and make his presence felt in the passing lanes, and is a strong rebounder, but has plenty of things to clean up on this end as well. Brown didn't have the season some expected him to at the college level, but has outstanding physical tools and plenty of room to continue to grow as a shooter, ball-handler and perimeter defender. Despite his up and down freshman campaign, there's a strong chance Brown hears his name called somewhere from picks 3 to 8 in the upcoming draft. Given his combination of size and athleticism, his success from that point will largely come down to how quickly his skill level comes around in the environment he's drafted into. Playing nearly the entire season as an 18-year old, Jamal Murray had a very successful freshman campaign as Kentucky's go-to guy, ranking as the #1 scorer in the country among sub-20 year old prospects. His season ended in mild disappointment when the Wildcats were upset in the NCAA Tournament's Round of 32 at the hands of Indiana, though, with Murray having his worst outing in the 2016 calendar year, shooting just 7/18 from the field. Murray's measurements have fluctuated throughout the years in the many different camps and events he's taken part in, with his lowest actually coming this past fall at the Kentucky Combine, at 6'3 without shoes with a 6'6 ½ wingspan and an 8'1 standing reach. He has an average combination of height, length, frame and athleticism for a guard prospect, not being particularly impressive in terms of his quickness or vertical explosiveness either. Murray's skill-level and aggressiveness is what separates him from your average guard (particularly for a teenager), and that starts with his capacity as one of the most prolific shooter/scorers in the college ranks. His jumper is a finely tuned weapon that has been honed through thousands of hours of repetition in the gym, and he hit 41% of his 3-pointers on a huge volume of attempts (nearly eight per game). His stroke is compact and repeatable, getting good elevation to create separation from the defense, to go along with an unlimited confidence in his ability to make shots from anywhere on the floor. Murray was magnificent as a spot-up shooter for Kentucky, but was particularly impressive coming off screens, as no player in college basketball even came close to delivering the accuracy he did (42/75, 56%) running off picks this season. He does an incredible job of moving off the ball with exquisite timing, and then catching, setting his feet and getting his shot off in one quick and smooth motion, with tremendous balance and body control. He is capable of contorting his body and throwing the ball in the basket from the most awkward of angles, with phenomenal touch and feel. Murray's scoring instincts also show up in the way he changes pace in the open court and attacks closeouts with excellent footwork and timing. While not a high flyer, he uses the glass craftily in traffic with runners, floaters and off-hand finishes. He's stronger than he looks on first glance, and has a good feel for drawing fouls, pushing off defenders subtly, and finding ways to put points up more effectively than you'd think considering his average tools. A major question NBA teams will have is whether Murray can develop into a combo, or even a point guard as time moves on. He averaged more turnovers than assists this season, and the track record of players who did so in college is decidedly mixed in terms of making that transition, with Gilbert Arenas, Eric Bledsoe and possibly Isaiah Canaan the only ones we can find with a similar or worse ratio in college that found success. Murray shows some potential in drive and dish situations passing with either hand or moving it ahead in transition, as he has a good feel for the game and doesn't appear to be a selfish player. With that said, he's undoubtedly a player who appears most comfortable looking for his own offense, and does not appear to have great court vision. He tends to go into iso-mode a little more frequently than you'd hope, over-dribbling badly and throwing up incredibly difficult shots. While dropping glimpses of his tremendous scoring instincts throughout the year, Murray was far from impressive with the ball in his hands, or as a scorer inside the arc overall, as reflected in his 50% 2-point percentage. He converted just 49% of his field goal attempts in transition situations according to Synergy Sports Technology, as well as 36% in isolation situations and 38% in pick and rolls. Murray's average first step makes it difficult for him to turn the corner and create high percentage shots inside the paint against better defenders, as he relies heavily on overhandling and pushing off to gain an advantage, leading to a barrage of difficult pull-ups and floaters. While he was exquisite shooting the ball with his feet set as a freshman (46%--SST), he hit a middling 32% of his pull-up jumpers, which is a difficult way to make a living. His struggles creating high percentage offense, combined with his average ability to play-make for others, will likely cause for somewhat of a transition to the NBA, where everyone is much bigger, longer and more athletic. Defensively, Murray will also require an adjustment period in making the step up to the NBA level. He was somewhat of a traffic cone early on in the season for Kentucky, but he did learn how to be more fundamentally sound and competitive as the year moved on. Still, he tends to be somewhat upright in his stance off the ball, does not possess great length or lateral quickness, and has a tough time getting a hand up and contesting shots effectively against similarly sized or bigger opponents. Who he can guard (and what type of guard he shares a backcourt with) will play a huge role in his ability to make an impact early on in his career. Analytic-types won't like the small number of blocks and steals Murray averaged this season, a reflection of his average tools, but to Murray's credit, he is intelligent and tough and found ways to adapt even if there are far fewer places to hide in the NBA than there were in college. Murray is somewhat of a controversial prospect, as his lack of athleticism is not what you typically find in a guard prospect projected to be picked in the top five to seven spots in the draft. His scoring instincts are off the charts, though, particularly for someone his age, which makes it difficult to rule out significant future improvement despite his struggles in many key areas this season. Murray's competitiveness and overall intangibles, wanting the big shots, having the utmost confidence in his abilities, and being able to find ways to put the ball in the basket at every level he played at, make him seem like the type of guy who will find a way to exceed the sum of his parts, even if there's no question he will need to be put in the right situation to do so. Coming off a season where he earned All-WCC Second Team honors as a freshman despite playing just 21.8 minutes per game off the bench, Domantas Sabonis returned to Spokane figuring to once again play a key reserve role for the Bulldogs behind Przemek Karnowski and Kyle Wiltjer. An early injury to Karnowski created a void at the center position, which figured to be a golden opportunity for Sabonis to emerge as a workhorse inside, suddenly playing an essential role in an offense built around an exceptional front court. Rising to the occasion, Sabonis, who ranked among the PER leaders at the U20 European Championship last summer before making his Eurobasket debut for Lithuania, averaged 17.5 points and 11.8 rebounds per game as a sophomore, helping Gonzaga to its 18th straight NCAA Tournament appearance via a WCC Tournament Championship, and ultimately, a spot in the Sweet 16. Earning a spot on the All-WCC First Team and being named an Academic All-American, Sabonis came up big for Mark Few when his number was called after just five games, emerging as one of the more productive, efficient big men in the country, and solidifying himself as a potential top-20 pick. Measured at 6'10 in shoes with a below average 6'10.5 wingspan and a strong 238-pound frame at the 2015 Nike Skills Academy last summer, Sabonis lacks great length for a power forward, let alone a center, and doesn't compensate with great leaping ability. Those limitations did not stop him from being brutally effective at the college level as his combination of mobility, fundamentals, and extreme desire to win often shined through as he outworked opposing big men for rebounds and scoring opportunities inside. They do raise some concerns about his ability to continue to do so at the next level, though. Seeing his usage nearly double in one of the most post-oriented offensive systems in the country, Sabonis averaged a terrific 1.1 points per possession over 16 possessions per game as a sophomore, matching the scoring efficiency numbers he posted in a far smaller role as a freshman. Doing the majority of his scoring one-on-one on the block, the talented Lithuanian big man's aggressiveness and strong feel for the game allowed him to make a consistent impact in the scoring column, including a handful of strong performances against quality competition. Finishing the year ranked seventh in the country in post-up scoring and third in efficiency according to Synergy Sports Technology, Sabonis combines excellent footwork with tremendous hands, good body control, and nice touch shooting the ball from a variety of angles going right or left. He has a very polished repertoire of moves for a 19 year old big man. Sabonis' experience at the highest level of European basketball were apparent at times over the last two years as his knack for creating angles to receive entry passes, ability to pass out of the post, and awareness to spin off the defense on short rolls are truly impressive. Shooting a sensational 67% on post ups, Sabonis seldom struggled to make his presence felt on the block at the college level, but he does have some questions to answer as he makes the jump to the next level. The lefty predictably turns over his right shoulder almost exclusively on his initial move, leading to some offensive fouls. His lack of length also raises some concerns about his ability to be as imposing of a weapon as he was in college game where his physical tools were frequently superior to those of the players he was matched up with in WCC play. The same concerns pop up with regards to Sabonis' ability to finish around the rim in the half court over NBA athleticism. His ability to score from awkward angles, frequently with little spins and scoops, certainly helps his cause, and he did convert a terrific 63% of his attempts inside in the college level, proving particularly effective on put backs, fast breaks, and rolls to the rim, but he struggled some nights to finish consistently in a crowd. Able to play above the rim in space, but lacking elite explosiveness to elevate above traffic, it will be fascinating to see how Sabonis's interior scoring ability translates to the next level, as few players have matched his efficiency in that regard over the last two seasons. Another area of interest moving forward will be his ability to make strides as a perimeter shooter. Attempting just a handful of jump shots as a freshman, Sabonis expanded his range this season, knocking 22 of the 45 perimeter shots he tossed up in the half court. Shooting the ball with a somewhat slow and rigid, but very compact and seemingly consistent release with little elevation, Sabonis may have some untapped potential as a jump shooter that could shine through and help alleviate the growing pains he experiences inside. Despite how much time Sabonis spent in the immediate vicinity of the rim last season, he flashed the ability to use his quickness to create a bit from the mid-post area as well. Able to attack closeouts or face-up and drive left to get by defenders who overcommit to defending his jump shot, Sabonis isn't particularly dynamic off the bounce, but his ability to take what the defense gives him is a plus, as is his ability to find cutters and even drive and dish from time to time. He has plenty of room to improve his ability to attack and score with his right hand, but has the skills to blend in nicely to a team's half-court offense with his willingness to move the ball. Outside of his offensive ability, Sabonis does his best work by far as a rebounder. Ranking among the best per-minute offensive and defensive rebounders in our top-100, the young big man has tremendous instincts and pursues the ball with great intensity as his motor runs consistently hot. Sabonis' toughness and fundamentals make him a terrific area rebounder, while his anticipation allows him to pull down some caroms outside of his area as well compensating for his lack of great explosiveness and then some. Defensively, Sabonis has a lot of room to grow. Not much of a shot blocker or rim protector in general, his lack of elite quickness and length limits him on this end. He is by no means lead-footed, but has struggled to stay in front of quicker forwards at times over the last two years. He does a decent job defending the post, positioning himself fairly well, but struggles to stay straight up defending shots inside, frequently committing unnecessary fouls as a result of that or when his emotions get the best of him. Not battling quite as hard on this end until shots go up as he does the rest of the game, it will be interesting to see what kind of defensive player Sabonis can be at the next level. Though he may not be an elite physical specimen, smart, fundamentally sound big men with win-first mentalities like Sabonis frequently provide value at the NBA level with their ability to do the dirty work inside. Playing exceptionally well down the stretch this season, Sabonis left NBA decision-makers with a lot to think about looking very comfortable against likely top-10 pick Jakob Poeltl. His upside may not be as obvious as some of the freakishly big or athletic underclassmen typically coming out of the NCAA ranks, but at just 19 years old, he already has a nice foundation of tools to build upon and may prove more capable against NBA length and athleticism as his game continues to blossom into his 20s. New Mexico State's Pascal Siakam discovered the game of basketball relatively late, as he grew up playing soccer in Cameroon, despite being the youngest of four brothers to play Division I basketball. A lightly recruited player after moving to Dallas with few, if any, other college offers outside New Mexico State, Siakam arrived in Las Cruces at just 190 pounds and elected to redshirt to work on his body and skills. All things considered, it is extremely impressive to see the way Siakam has improved, as he's been able to put his name on NBA Draft radars after just two seasons of play. A 6'10” power forward with an imposing 7'3” wingspan, Siakam has several physical tools that give him a solid foundation as a draft prospect. In addition to his measurables, he has a motor that rarely stops along with great speed and agility to boot that allows him to move around the court with ease. He does have a thin frame, both in his upper and lower body, weighing just 227 pounds at the NBA Combine, and he will need to work on filling out his body and becoming stronger to compete with NBA players on a nightly basis. Not a highly skilled offensive player, Siakam relies mainly on his length, athleticism and motor to get easy points around the rim. He converts 62.2% of his shots at the rim according to Synergy Sports Technology with many of these attempts coming from the shot creation of his teammates. He doesn't have great explosiveness off the ground but with his length, he doesn't need to get that high to dunk offensive rebounds or dump-off passes and he can utilize his open court speed to finish his rim runs in transition by being the first player down the court. Where Siakam can make some strides in his own shot creation, starting from the mid-range and then extending to the three point line. He's not much of a jump shooter yet, attempting just fifteen three point attempts last season. He did have a larger sample from the mid-range but his mechanics are inconsistent and need to be tweaked before he turns into a threat as a shooter. He does have solid touch and looks to be in the process of cleaning up his mechanics, so it's not out of the realm of possibility that he continues to improve in this area. Siakam displays some potential to attack off the dribble that could eventually complement a reliable jump shot, preferring to work from the center of the court toward his right hand. It usually ends in a floater or an awkward off balance leaning jumper rather than a layup or restricted area shot attempt. With his reach these shots are not easily contested by the defense but he has to improve his touch in the paint or find a way to get all the way to the rim to finish his drives with a bucket. Adding these skills will also help him become a pick and roll threat as he could dive to the rim with his quickness, step out for a jumper or be able to attack from inside the arc all the way to the rim. He doesn't hold the ball for a long time and makes quick decisions whether to attack or pass but his passes don't usually lead directly to scoring opportunities as he had a relatively average 1.8 assists per 40 minutes pace adjusted. As he becomes more comfortable creating his own shot, he'll also need to improve upon creating good looks for his teammates. He will also want to learn to move the ball within the flow of the offense instead of just passing it back to where it came from if he doesn't have a clear shot attempt. Siakam's 13.7 total rebounds per 40 pace adjusted ranks fifth among power forwards in our top 100, but where he really makes his mark is on the offensive glass with his 4.6 offensive rebounds per 40 minutes pace adjusted ranking fifth among all prospects in our top 100. He crashes the glass relentlessly, shedding his man on his way to chasing down loose balls anywhere on the court. He is a competent defensive rebounder as well by pulling down 9.1 defensive rebounds per 40 minutes pace adjusted. He boxes out his man and has a decent nose for the ball coming off his rim, but has to expend so much energy holding off his man with his below average strength that he can't quickly disengage from his man and attack the rebound all the time to be a dominant rebounder. He will certainly be asked to fill a role as a rebounder and with his energy, length and aggressiveness, he is often the first to the loose ball and will be able to help finish possessions. We didn't get to see much of Siakam's individual defensive skills because he spent much of his time sitting back in a zone defense during the regular season, but he did show some promise in the times spent in man defense. He certainly possesses most of the physical tools needed to guard the perimeter although his frame will once again be a question mark, and will need improving to hold his position on dribble penetration. He'll have to prove that he can be a fundamental team defender who is able to move his feet and switch onto multiple positions on the perimeter, a necessary skill for all power forwards and something we don't have a large sample size of against strong offensive players. He flew around the floor to block 2.6 shots per 40 minutes pace adjusted as a sophomore by rotating over to the front of the rim from his position in the zone or flying at shooters on the perimeter. While he may find it difficult to replicate these numbers against NBA players, he's showed that he can be a high energy defender who will challenge every shot that is within his reach. His intensity level, length and above average basketball IQ bodes well for his future on this end of the floor. Siakam doesn't have a large catalog playing against NBA caliber players with just one game against a major conference team in Baylor where he put up an impressive 26 points and 10 rebounds. He was also very productive in the NBA combine scrimmages, averaging 17.7 points and 15.5 rebounds per 40 minutes. Having not played the game for that long and playing his college seasons in a smaller conference, it was important for Siakam to show he can translate his production against his peers at his position, and he certainly seemed to do that at the NBA Combine. Although he is already 22, Siakam can be expected to improve and add to his skills as he grows more comfortable on the court and develops more of a feel for the game with added experience. A team drafting him will hope they can utilize his athletic tools and non-stop energy to fulfill some key roles that may be missing from their roster while at the same time developing other parts of his game to round out his skill set and make him a more complete and impactful player.