There are some college basketball players who require some nuance in figuring out why they're NBA prospects. A diverse skill level that may not show up right away, an incredible understanding of the game that requires some time before it's really appreciated, a specific role they have to be placed into in order to really have their gifts maximized to the extent that you can see them carving a role at the highest levels of basketball. Providence junior Kris Dunn is not one of these prospects. It takes little more than a few seconds of watching Dunn play before you realize why he has a bright future in the NBA. Dunn has an exceptional physical profile for a point guard in today's NBA, standing 6'4” in shoes, with a terrific frame, a long 6'9” wingspan, and elite quickness and leaping ability that place him in rarefied air by even NBA standards. Dunn spent his first two seasons at Providence fighting off a series of injuries to his right shoulder that prevented his college career from taking off. Dunn tore the labrum in his right shoulder the summer before his freshman season at Providence, then injured the shoulder again in an exhibition prior to what would have been his sophomore year. Dunn tried to play through the injury initially, playing four games for the Friars before conducting season-ending surgery. After breaking out in a big way in 2014-15, Dunn's progress for this season, classified his junior season after being granted a medical red shirt for the 2013-14 campaign, was much more incremental in nature. His scoring average rose slightly, from 18 points per 40 minutes pace adjusted to 19.6, his three-point shot rose from 35.1 percent to 37.2 percent, and his turnovers dropped, from coughing the ball up on 22.6 percent of his possessions to 18.8 percent, a figure still very much on the high side. His assist rate did drop as well, from assisting on 50 percent of his teammates field goals while on the floor in 2014-15 to 41.8 percent, although this is in large part due to the emergence of sophomore Kyron Cartwright as a secondary ball handler for the Friars, and the presence of Ben Bentil, who created a decent amount of his prolific offense on his own. Dunn's athletic profile serves as the catalyst for much of his game, including in transition, which makes up just over 25 percent of his possessions, according to Synergy Sports Technology, despite the fact that Providence head coach Ed Cooley hasn't historically been known as an up-tempo coach. Dunn's elite ability to force turnovers – he averaged 3 steals per 40 minutes, pace adjusted, the top figure in our top-100 database – certainly helps in this regard. Dunn has elite quickness with the ball in his hands and an incredible burst, and he's relentless in attempting to use this to his advantage in the open court. Another area where Dunn really uses his quickness to his advantage is off pick and rolls. Dunn changes gears very well, expertly lulling defenders to sleep with a couple of lazy dribbles before changing gears, and direction, and exploding to the hoop in a manner that's tough for defenders to stay in front of. Dunn complements this ability to attack the basketball off of pick and rolls with an ability to shoot off the dribble, and has excellent elevation on his jump shot, which allows him to get a clean look despite tight defensive pressure. Dunn's overall numbers as a jump shooter have improved over the years, and based off numbers alone can be considered a strength of his, at least on paper. Dunn shot a career-best 37.2 percent from three-point range on the season, making just over one per contest, and shot 33 percent on jump shots off the dribble, a better-than-average rate. Still, watch Dunn play and the results are wildly inconsistent. At times, he'll make shots that fall effortlessly through the hoop; at other times, he'll miss, wildly, to the left or right, shooting airballs that make you wonder how much progress he's actually made on his shot. In terms of form, there's still quite a bit of extra motion in his shot, and his balance is questionable at times as well, with the plant, angle of jump, and landing seemingly changing from shot to shot, even when not under duress. Dunn's other main area of concern is his propensity to turn the ball over. The optimist would say he lowered his turnovers from 4.8 turnovers per 40 minutes, pace adjusted, to 4.2. The pessimist would say that's still the worst number, by far, of any point guard projected to be drafted in our latest mock draft. The reasons for Dunn's turnovers are varied, from wild forays to the hoop, to an at-times loose dribble ripe for being stripped, to flat out poor decision making. Providence is a team that has struggled from the perimeter during the two seasons Dunn served as a focal point, and this lack of spacing certainly provides some hope that Dunn could fix some of these issues at the next level. The spacing Dunn should have in the NBA, with the freedom of movement guards enjoy, the longer three-point line, and hopefully landing on a team with more consistent perimeter shooters are all factors that could help Dunn's style of play. Still, the questionable decision making is a legitimate concern for a 22-year old player who will have the ball in his hands as much as Dunn projects to. One area where Dunn made progress this season was finishing at the hoop. His overall two-point field goal percentage was still very low, as he shot just 47.7 percent from two-point range on the season, but this was in large part due to how reliant he is on long two-point jump shots to carry the offensive burden he has been asked to at Providence. Dunn shot 58.1 percent on half court shots around the basket, according to Synergy Sports Technology, a significant improvement over the 46 percent he shot during 2014-15, as he did a much better job of using his elite explosiveness and body control to effectively finish around the basket. While Dunn's decision making and carelessness with the ball still leave something to be desired, he possesses plus court vision, and knows how to use his athleticism and ability to create off the dribble to benefit his teammates, both shooters stationed in those ever-so-valuable corners and big men cutting off the ball. Defensively, Dunn has elite physical tools, with the size, wingspan, and foot speed to be a lockdown defender when dialed in. Dunn tends to float off the ball, constantly in search of lazy passes for opportunities to force a steal and start a transition breakaway. This can certainly work – as we noted above, he has a prolific steal rate – but it leaves him out of position far too frequently, as he can be prone to being burned by back door cuts, lacks awareness in recognizing screens, and struggles to defend pick and rolls. Dunn's also prone to reaching more often than he should, picking up some entirely unnecessary fouls which limits his ability to stay on the floor. The potential is there, but his current consistency and effectiveness might be overstated if you just watched his highlights or saw his gaudy steal numbers. Dunn's combination of elite physical tools, ability to get to the rim, both in transition and off the dribble, passing ability, and defensive upside gives him an immense amount of potential to tap into, and should land him very high in the lottery as a result. While his turnover rate and inconsistency in his jump shot are currently holding his game back somewhere, those are correctable flaws and there's regardless quite a bit of room for growth left as the game slows down for him with age and experience. A late bloomer who has only been playing competitively for a few years, Marquese Chriss surprised many by developing into one of the most productive freshmen in his class in his lone season of college basketball. Chriss is one of the most physically gifted prospects you'll find, possessing an exhilarating combination of quickness, explosiveness and body control that makes him a highlight reel candidate anytime he steps on the floor. He's very upright in his running style, but is extremely light on his feet, has a very quick second bounce, and can finish around the rim from impressive distances, often looking like he's barely breaking a sweat. Chriss is more than just a freak athlete, though, as he has the makings of an ideal skill-set for a modern day NBA power forward. That starts with his ability to stretch the floor from beyond the 3-point line, where Chriss made a solid 21/60 (35%) of his attempts. He has a compact stroke, and natural touch on his shot, being capable both with his feet set and even off the dribble in small doses. He could possibly stand to raise his release point a bit, and not contort his body on his release, but there's no question he has legit range on his jumper and will be able to develop into an even better shooter down the road as he's able to perfect his technique. Chriss also shows the ability to attack his man off the dribble with a strong first step, while driving in either direction. He shows impressive footwork and body control with his spin moves, and excellent timing attacking closeouts, even though his ball-handling skills are a work in progress and his reluctance to finish with his left hand sometimes put him in awkward situations around the rim. Chriss shows some semblance of a post game, mainly with his ability to shoot turnaround jumpers and right-handed hook shots with very soft touch from unique angles. He tends to shy away from contact at times, and is still working on developing the strength and footwork needed to utilize his outstanding combination of quickness and explosiveness on a full-time basis, but he has great potential operating in the mid-post area. He'll be very difficult to handle facing up in that range for most power forwards with his ability to make jumpers and blow by opponents with his terrific first step. Chriss also shows strong potential as a roll-man and cutter, with his very soft hands and ability to get up the floor in the blink of an eye to make plays above the rim. He doesn't always show the best feel for playing off the ball, and is inconsistent with the effort he shows sprinting to the rim, but has the tools to be a very good finisher if he wants to. One area teams will want to see Chriss develop to be a full-time perimeter oriented forward is with his passing ability. His assist percentage and pure point rating both rank fourth worst among the 22 collegiate power forwards in our Top-100 rankings. His lack of experience comes into play here, having only a couple of years of experience playing competitive basketball under his belt, but so does his feel for the game, which appears to be average at best right now. Where that tends to show up the most vividly right now is as on the defensive glass. At 4.1 rebounds per-40, Chriss ranks among the least prolific power forwards in NBA Draft history according to our database. Among first round picks, only Thaddeus Young (who played mostly SF in college) had a worse defensive rebounding rate in the draft's last 30 years. Chriss almost never puts a body on opposing big men in an attempt to box out and prepare for loose balls coming off the glass, and his relatively small standing reach (measured at 8'9, comparable with most small forwards) didn't help matters much. In addition to his instincts, his motor here leaves a lot to be desired as well, as if at times appears he's operating at half speed, and far more focused on his work on the offensive end. Not surprisingly, that translates to the rest of his play defensively. He has the quickness needed to stay in front of nearly everyone he encounters, and the explosiveness to block a decent amount of shots, but lacks the fundamentals, discipline and consistent effort required to take advantage of that. Opposing coaching staffs regularly targeted him in isolation situations, and found a lot of success doing so, as he would typically either commit a foul or give up a basket. Chriss was one of the most foul prone players in college basketball, being disqualified from 15 of his 34 games, and committing four fouls in ten others. Many of his fouls seemed highly unnecessary, particularly early in the season, and appeared to be almost entirely due to a lack of focus. In today's NBA, many teams want to see their power forwards being able to hold their own as small-ball centers, and it's not clear that he has the frame, length or reach to be overly effective at that. While he isn't undersized in terms of his pure height, he has a long neck that makes him appear a little taller on paper than he actually plays. He may actually find more success on the wing, using his terrific quickness and mobility, than he would on the block defending legit big men, but that's a little more difficult to configure lineup wise and thus not as big of an advantage as in the past. One of the youngest players in the draft, not turning 19 until July, Chriss has quite a bit of innate talent that is easy to get excited about, but also some significant red flags on and off the court. He's a long ways away from reaching his full potential at the moment, with his inconsistent motor, approach to the game, and how emotional he appears at times. He is undoubtedly a long term project with tremendous tools, but will need to find the right situation and coaching staff to find success down the road. With that said, his tremendous frame, combined with his ability to shoot 3-pointers and make freakishly athletic plays will steal many hearts in the NBA pre-draft workout process (and beyond), and could allow him to gain quite a bit of steam as we get closer to June. Prince was drafted in the lottery by a playoff team, which is an a-typical scenario for our projection model. Player's with Prince's key traits typically enjoy a great deal of success when allowed to slot into a projectable role, work within a system, and move themselves up the food chain. Prince's elevated serious-minded approach to opportunity and goal-focus gives him value beyond his four years of collegiate experience. The attack mentality that earned him a lotto-nod from the Hawks may have left Prince a bit out of control at times on-court at Baylor. But, his sense of perspective should serve him well as he refines his decision-making within the context of the standards of the team. If Atlanta continues to hum along at the level of system efficiency they've enjoyed recently, Prince should quickly find ways to positively make an impact. Much as Justise Winslow in Miami, Prince is looking at a Year one season where he'll be surrounded by a number of established veterans with a more definitive hierarchy to work within than most lottery picks. As the twelfth pick, Prince may be given the chance at unseating Mike Scott - and his expiring contract - as he has the demeanor to do so. But, Atlanta's frontcourt depth was bolstered by the team's investment in Dwight Howard, making the competition for minutes fierce. Consistency from the perimeter will likely be an important factor in this roster coming together this season. Prince's ability to be solid on both sides of the ball could give him a leg up on minutes in a switch/swing combo with Kent Bazemore if Korver continues to show signs of aging. But, he'll have to adjust to NBA three-point range first. However, it would not be surprising to see Prince in the starting lineup at some point this season. His size and versatility on the defensive end provide some intriguing matchup options and his personality is ideally suited to increasing his output the more opportunity he sees. Voted a Big Ten All-Conference Player as a junior, Denzel Valentine took his game to an entirely new level as a senior, emerging as one of the most skilled and productive players in all of college basketball. He was named Big Ten player of the year, and is currently neck and neck with Buddy Hield for most of National Player of the Year honors. Valentine is the only player in our extensive college basketball historical database (dating back around 30 years) to average over 19 points, 7 rebounds and 7 assists per game. The only ones to come close are Penny Hardaway (23, 8+6 as a sophomore at Memphis in 1993), Evan Turner (20, 9+6 as a junior at Ohio State in 2008) and Michael Anderson (24, 6+7 as a senior at Drexel in 1988). Unfortunately, Valentine's season came to a premature end when Michigan State was shockingly upset in the NCAA Tournament's Round of 64 at the hands of #15 seed Middle Tennessee State. From a physical standpoint, Valentine has good size for either guard position, standing around 6'6 in shoes, with a long 6'10 wingspan. He has a heavy set frame that he's done his best to maximize, but will continually require toning as his career moves on, and is not a great athlete by any stretch, lacking much in the way of quickness and explosiveness. Valentine was Michigan State's point guard this season for all intents and purposes, and his best attributes revolve around his prodigious court vision and passing ability, which are incredibly unique at his size. Valentine may have the highest basketball IQ of any player in this draft, as his timing and instincts as a playmaker are simply off the charts. Able to see over the top of the defense at all times, he can make every type of pass in the book, and is especially good at making reads in transition and early offense situations, finding shooters in the corners, big men cutting to the rim, and everything in between, particularly on the pick and roll. Valentine is the first college player over 6'5 since 1988 to average over 9 assists per-40 minutes, so it might be a while until we see another player his size who is able to distribute the way he can. Valentine is also a tremendous shooter on top of that, making the second highest volume of 3-pointers among DX Top-100 prospects (behind only Buddy Hield), but doing so at an incredible 45% clip. Only five players in college basketball made over 100 3s this year and did so while shooting so accurately, while none did so last season. What's even more impressive about Valentine's shooting, beyond the numbers, is the way he knocks down his jumpers, some of which come off the most complicated looks you can imagine. Valentine is frequently utilized as a floor-spacer, but is also very capable both running off screens and shooting pull-up jumpers. He does a great job of getting his feet underneath him and releasing the ball quickly, and has the ability to attack closeouts with straight-line drives and floaters when defenses play up on his shot too aggressively. Valentine is not afraid to take big shots and has had some very memorable moments in his college career hitting timely jumpers with a hand in his face and the clock running down. Valentine's size, length and instincts also translates to his work on the glass, as his 8.5 defensive rebounds per-40 minutes was the top rate among any guard or wing prospect in our Top-100 prospect rankings, higher than many power forwards or centers in fact. While Valentine doesn't look scared to mix things up on the glass, he's an extremely poor defender that needed to be hidden constantly at the college level in order to not emerge as a liability. While somewhat of a combo guard offensively, he's best suited guarding small forwards who don't have much in the way of ball-handling ability or explosiveness on the other end. His lateral quickness is very poor, he doesn't cover ground well, and his effort really comes and goes, as he often looks fairly lazy closing out on shooters or trying to keep his man in front. Valentine relies heavily on reaching and grabbing his man to try and slow him down, which simply will not work at the NBA level. Another concern is his lack of burst offensively, as he often has a tough time turning the corner against better defenders in the half-court. His size, strength and ability to change speeds works to his advantage at the college level, but there are concerns about whether he'll be able to do the same against NBA-level defenders, where everyone is much bigger, longer, stronger and more athletic. With as good of a season as he had, he still converted just 48% of his 2-point attempts (67th best out the 80 college prospects in the DX Top-100) and got to the free throw line just 4 times per-40 minutes (also ranked 67th out of 80). When he is able to get past his man, he often simply isn't explosive enough to finish what he creates inside the paint, forcing him to rely very heavily on floaters. A player with radically contrasting strengths and weaknesses, Valentine is likely to end up as one of the most hotly debated prospects in this draft class, as NBA teams already seem to be all over the map in how they view him. His ultimate success will likely depend on a team and coaching staff's willingness to utilize his tremendous playmaking and shooting ability, while surrounding him with players who can help mitigate his extreme deficiencies defensively, similar to what Michigan State did. Potentially draftable anywhere from the late lottery, all the way to the end of the first round, it will be fascinating to see how Valentine's NBA career pans out. Halfway through the ACB regular season, it's safe to say that 20-year old Juan Hernangomez (also called Juancho Hernangomez) has been the revelation of the Spanish league thus far. The 6'9 face-up power forward is putting up historic numbers with Estudiantes for a player his age. His 11.3 points ranks as the highest per game scoring average for a player under 21 since Rudy Fernandez's 13.7 ten years ago. Additionally, his 20.6 PER ranks is second best in the last decade as well (behind Nikola Mirotic), eclipsing some big names (Ricky Rubio, Tiago Splitter, Serge Ibaka, Kristaps Porzingis, Ersan Ilyasova, and his older brother Guillermo/Willy [drafted by the Knicks last June]) in the process so far. The intrigue around Hernangomez begins with his productivity playing at the highest level of European basketball, but continues with his strong physical attributes. Standing 6'9, he has ample height for a NBA power forward, and combines that with a good frame that should continue to fill out, a long wingspan (appearing to be somewhere in the 7-foot territory), and solid athletic ability. He is a fluid athlete who plays above the rim with ease, is very light on his feet, and runs the floor with impressive speed. Offensively, Hernangomez gets his production in a variety of different ways, be it as a spot-up shooter, as a cutter/pick and roll finisher, crashing the offensive glass, or running the floor in transition. His offensive versatility hints at being able to play both forward spots down the road, which is a highly coveted skill in the NBA at this point in time. He's improved his perimeter shooting this season, upping his 3P% from 25% in the ACB last year to 34% thus far in 2015/2016. While he hasn't always been the most consistent shooter historically, he shows fairly fluid, consistent mechanics with a high release point, and nice balance in his lower body, which has helped him see increasingly better results. Hernangomez also shows a nice first step and is capable of attacking closeouts driving in either direction. He's an aggressive player who regularly makes decisive cuts or drives to the paint and will finish strong at the basket once there, often through contact, which, along with his ability to run the floor, helps explain his excellent 2P% (58%) and the impressive way he's been able to get to the free throw line this season (7 attempts per-40 minutes, 78% conversion rate). Hernangomez's athleticism, length, toughness and intensity are all reflected in the way he competes on the glass, as he's one of just a handful of players under the age of 21 to average over 10 rebounds per-40 minutes in the ACB in the past 25+ years. He plays with a real edge to him, regularly going out of his area on both ends of the floor. His motor and ability to do the “little things” will likely help keep him on the floor even when his shot isn't falling. The hyperactive energy level Hernangomez displays at times does come with somewhat of a cost though. He tends to try to do a little too much at times offensively, posting just 32 career assists in nearly 1200 minutes (one every 37 minutes), even if he's clearly not a selfish player and will occasionally surprise you with some really creative passes, his decision making skills could use some work. As competitive, engaged and fiery as Hernangomez is, the place where his youth shows up most vividly right now is defensively. He regularly gets taken advantage of by the significantly older and more physically mature players he encounters every single game playing in the very physical ACB, as he doesn't have standout height nor strength for a power forward at this stage. He struggles to step out on the perimeter as well, as he doesn't always get in a low defensive stance, and has some issues staying in front of quicker opponents who tend to drive right by him. While his energy level is excellent, and he likely has the tools to develop into a very solid defender as he gains experience, he tends to gamble a little too much right now, biting on fakes, trying to reach for steals, and generally playing with a reckless abandon. Becoming a more consistent shooter will be a major key for Hernangomez's ability to carve out a role in the NBA. Right now he is a career 40/118 (33.8%) 3-point shooter, which is promising, but will need to continue to improve. His tendency to shoot the ball from the side of his face, with a bit of side spin, makes for some bad left/right misses, and he is pretty much exclusively a spot-up shooter at the moment, almost never attempting any off the dribble jumpers. Part of that is due to his ball-handling ability, which is also somewhat unrefined. After playing 10 minutes per game last season, Hernangomez is up to 25 minutes per contest this year, which is fairly impressive considering he just turned 20 a little over three months ago. While the fact that his team is in last place in the league certainly contributes to that (and his head coach being fired today may change his role somewhat), there is very little doubt that he is one of the most productive players in the league at his position. A free agent this summer, Hernangomez could very well decide to come straight to the NBA depending on how high he's picked this upcoming June. It's becoming increasingly difficult for NBA teams to find players with the type of size, motor and skill-set he shows at the 4/3 position, and his style of play makes it fairly easy to slot him into a role in the NBA. Expect to start hearing his name a lot more now in other places. Henry Ellenson had a productive first and lone season of college basketball from an individual standpoint, being named Big East Rookie of the Year, as well as First Team All-Conference. His team struggled through a fairly disappointing year, though, finishing 8-10 in Big East play, and ending their season in the quarterfinals of the conference tournament after not being invited to the NIT. Standing 6'10 (possibly a hair taller), with a 7'2 wingspan, a 9'1 standing reach and a mature 240 pound frame, Ellenson has prototypical height, length, reach and strength for a NBA power forward, and is big and strong enough to slide over to the center position in smaller lineups as well. He's also extremely nimble and mobile, showing impressive fluidity and dexterity for a player his size, even if he isn't incredibly quick or explosive in a traditional sense. Staying lean will be important to maintain and possibly improve his athleticism in the long term, as he was much heavier earlier in his career and has a frame that could possibly get out of shape quickly. At 20 points per-40 minutes, Ellenson ranked among the most prolific freshmen in college basketball this season offensively. Able to put the ball in the basket from virtually anywhere on the floor, his instincts and natural scoring touch are extremely impressive for someone his age. Ellenson shows potential as a perimeter shooter, knocking down 30 3-pointers in 33 games this season, but is not quite there yet in terms of consistency, hitting just 29% of his attempts. Looking at his shooting mechanics, and the fact that he knocked down 75% of his free throw attempts, it's not difficult to envision him becoming an effective floor spacing big man in time, as his streakiness as a shooter seemed to have more to do with shot-selection than any concerns about his natural ability. He was very effective in the mid-range area, hitting 40% of his attempts on the season there (SST), sometimes pulling up off the dribble impressively, but had a tendency to short-arm many of his 3-point attempts, which often came with a hand in his face. What separates Ellenson from most big men is the skill-level he demonstrates with the ball in his hands. He's extremely impressive with his ability to put the ball on the floor, not just when grabbing a defensive rebound and going coast to coast, but also in the half-court, using shot-fakes, advanced ball-handling moves and body control to create his own shot and get to the rim. Ellenson is a real mismatch at his size, something that can probably be utilized even more effectively with NBA spacing, particularly in smaller lineups with multiple shooting options surrounding him. He's the rare big man who can be utilized effectively as the ball-handler in both pick and roll or isolation situations, as he can drive left and right and mix in some impressive change of speed and direction moves. He knows how to slow down and speed up instinctively with his long strides to beat defenders and make his way to the rim, and utilizes outstanding footwork to spin around opponents and finish with soft touch. Ellenson's strong frame helps him finish through contact, even if he's not incredibly explosive off two feet, and he got to the free throw line an impressive seven times per-40 minutes, which helped compensate for his relatively pedestrian 49.5% 2P%. He's also a very good rebounder, averaging a strong 11.8 per-40. His sturdy frame, excellent hands and terrific timing and anticipation skills all play a role in his prowess as a glass-cleaner, which has been the case virtually everywhere he's been thus far statistically, showing the emphasis he places on this part of his game. While far more comfortable operating with his face to the basket, Ellenson also shows potential in post-up situations as well, something we may not have seen the best of operating alongside another 6'11 interior player in Luke Fischer. He has the requisite strength needed to establish solid post position, as well as the skill-level needed to create his own shot in the low post and finish with either hand or utilizing turnaround jumpers. He's not what you'd call a high flyer, though, and his struggles finishing around the basket contributed to his inefficiency as a scorer. While obviously extremely talented, Ellenson is still working on figuring out his limitations and how to operate efficiently offensively on a consistent basis. His 54% TS% leaves something to be desired for a player his size, as he tends to force the issue at times off the dribble and with his shot-selection. He was never known for his passing ability coming out of high school, and did not always looking like a willing distributor as a freshman, even if his passing metrics are not terrible considering how inefficient Marquette was offensively as a whole this year. It's reasonable to say that his passing ability has plenty of room for growth as the game slows down for him and he's surrounded with better players than he has had thus far in his career. This will be important considering the role he'll likely be asked to play facing the basket on the perimeter, where a lot of offense could be run through him. The biggest concerns about Ellenson as a NBA prospect revolve around his play on the defensive end. At 6'10, he is somewhat heavy legged stepping out on the perimeter and guarding quicker power forwards, and doesn't show great explosiveness or timing as a rim protector to allow him to anchor a team's defense at the center position. Ellenson's instincts, awareness and intensity level leaves a lot to be desired defensively, as he's not one to put his body on the line and struggles trying to cover ground on the pick and roll, often looking flat-footed rotating on the back of his heels and getting caught in no man's land. Playing alongside a similarly challenged 6'11 center in a twin-tower lineup didn't do him a lot of favors at the college level, but this is something he'll probably have to deal with at the power forward spot in the NBA as well. Defensive concerns are likely always going to be a serious issue unless Ellenson makes a real commitment to playing harder and smarter on this end of the floor, something you can't necessarily close the book on considering he's only 19 years old. With that said, the early results thus far haven't been promising. Ellenson's physical tools, skill-level and natural talent make it very easy to see him finding success at the NBA level offensively, and in a draft like this, he is an easy player to plug into the 5-10 portion of the draft. Just how effective he becomes will largely depend on fit and his ability to become a significantly better defender, but there will always be a place for a big man with his scoring instincts. What follows is a look at Bembry through the scope of Sports Aptitude's proprietary methodology that utilizes Personality and Situation Factors to help better quantify the probability of success. (For more on Bembry's Personality Group click here.) Bembry didn't always receive the attention he does today as a fast-rising, first round prospect. He was the 251st ranked high school recruit, and top schools overlooked him. This is somewhat surprising considering he played on the same AAU team that birthed more heralded recruits Karl Town and Wade Baldwin, as well as attending the prestigious Patrick School for his final two high school seasons. Historically, players with Bembry's personality traits place more value on being in cohesive team environments as opposed to blindly chasing individual status – it's quite possible that Bembry's downstated demeanor and willingness to adjust around others garnered less “me first” attention despite his team's background history. Once he settled in at The Patrick School in New Jersey, former home of Michael Kidd-Gilchrist, things started to stabilize and the local Universities began to take notice. Again, this is not an unexpected “late bloom” for a player who profiles as highly methodical and patient with the process of development. After deciding between St Joseph's and Temple, Bembry eventually committed to St. Joseph's because, he said, "It just came down to a chance to play. It was a great team that needed a piece. I gave them that piece.” The early opportunity worked for Bembry. He was the Atlantic 10 Rookie of the Year as a freshman, named to the All-Conference first-team as a sophomore, and then as a junior he won A-10 Player of the Year and led the Hawks to the NCAA Tournament. Bembry was “given” nothing. Coach Phil Martelli was clear that the opportunity in front of Bembry would have to be earned. This is the ideal blend of opportunity and expectation for players from Bembry's “Team Culture” oriented personality group. These are players whose decisions are a strong reflection of their surroundings. They also generally thrive in situations that provide more structure, continuity, and a path to opportunity that is more easily identified. In fact, the largest drop of successful NBA players comes from this group. Players in this “Team Culture” group that share Bembry's own traits typically excel on the NBA level in situations that are best described as having a “transition plan” in place. When things are more stable and there is an obtainable role to pursue, these players are often at their best. Much like the successful players in his group, Bembry is ideally suited to be challenged by a team that values his current skill-set and provides him with a clear action-item list of tasks leading him on the path to unlocking his potential. Bembry has shown what he can do when the demands placed on him are high. Yet, he hasn't been asked to carry a light load since very early in his high school career. As is often the case with players like him; the expectations of fulfilling a key role on a cohesive team with superior talent may unlock another level to his game. A player we've covered in significant detail earlier this season, Timothe Luwawu's season came to a slightly premature end as he suffered an ankle injury in late May that held him out of the Serbian League playoffs. One of the biggest riserx among international prospects this season, the talented Frenchman showed massive improvement from last season ending the year averaging 14.5 points, 4.6 rebounds, and 2.8 assists over 30.1 minutes per game. Possessing terrific size and athleticism for a wing to go along with an improving frame, Luawau's intrigue at the NBA level has always started with his physical tools, but his improved jump shot and play in a large role for prospect-rich Mega Leks are the reason he's regarded as highly as he is heading into the 2016 NBA Draft. Connecting on 36% of his attempts from beyond the arc on 5.3 attempts per-game, up from 29% on just 2.2 last year when he played in the French Second division with Antibes, Luwawu appears to have become a significantly more viable threat from the perimeter. Despite his overall uptick in efficiency, the young Freshman still has a way to go as a perimeter threat as he struggled with bouts of inconsistency throughout the year, shooting just 17% from beyond the arc over five games in January, and 25% over five games in May. He was solid on catch and shoot situations on the year overall, but his effectiveness off the dribble slid a bit as the year wore on, which was only compounded by the sizable role he played offensively. Even if Luwawu's skill set and decision-making didn't always line up with his role, there's little question that being thrust into a situation where he was asked to regularly create in the pick and roll and push the ball on the break was a plus for him. The freedom Mega Leks offers to young players is more or less unprecedented in the European game, and though Luwawu figures to play a dialed back role at the next level early on, he got plenty of on job training this season that could serve him well in the future. He wasn't overly efficient shooting on the break, got tunnel vision going to the rim, and made some questionable decisions as a passer throughout the year, but also had plenty of impressive moments, giving plenty of reason for optimism about his offensive skill set moving forward. Scouts hold similar sentiments about Luwawu's defensive ability, as his tools and potential are obvious, but his effort level and consistency were not always ideal. Even with his shortcomings, Luwawu nonetheless played a major role in his team's success this season and boosted his standing in the eyes of scouts significantly from a year ago, and Mega Leks will have a chance to make history come draft day partly because of that. Four separate drafts have included three players selected from the same international club: Montenegrin power Buducnost in 2003, ACB club Joventut in 2009 (though Christian Eyenga played mostly for CB Prat), Mega Leks in 2014, and Sevilla in 2015. Mega Leks seems like a mortal lock to add themselves to this list once again since Ivica Zubac, Rade Zagorac, and Luwawu all remained in the draft part the withdrawal deadline, but could also conceivably become the first international club to have three players selected in the first round. The increasingly successful Serbian club continues to churn out prospects emerging as perhaps the most unique situation for promising young players outside of the college game. A player we covered in significant detail earlier this season, Furkan Korkmaz's season ended in disappointment as Anadolu Efes fell to Fenerbahce Ulker in the Turkish League finals and failed to advance past the top-16 round of the Euroleague. The immense pressure, and ultimately turmoil, surrounding the team—they parted ways with legendary Serbian coach Dusan Ivkovic in late April, caused his minutes to decrease marginally, and contributed to his stock stagnating among NBA scouts. He surprised many by electing to keep his name in the draft at the June 13th deadline, as his camp had told some NBA teams he is looking for a promise in the lottery in order to stay in, which he ultimately did not receive. Averaging 4.3 points over 11.5 minutes per game against some of the top competition in the world outside of the NBA, the 18-year-old shooting guard didn't have another outburst like he did when he scored 25 points in 27 minutes against Turk Telekom Ankara, but had his moments filling his relatively minor role down the stretch, reinforcing much of what scouts already knew about him. One of just seven players under the age of 19 to see more than garbage time minutes in the Euroleague this season along with Luka Doncic, Dzanan Musa, Dragan Bender, Lovro Mazalin, Vassilis Charalampopoulos, and Borisa Simanic, Korkmaz has been one of the more productive teenagers in the Europe's top competition each of the last two seasons. The tall, skilled wing shot the ball well both off the catch and off the dribble this season, helping Jon Diebler and Dario Saric spread the floor from the wing for the likes of Jayson Granger and Thomas Heurtel at the guard spots and Derrick Brown, Bryant Dunston, and Alex Tyus up front on a deep, talented Anadolu Efes team. Doing most of his damage in spot up situations, Korkmaz may lack strength and a degree of creativity off the dribble at the moment, but he has an obvious NBA skill in his ability to hit shots from the perimeter, where he posts impressive percentages overall and runs particularly hot at times. He's also a strong passer with an excellent feel for the game, contributing to his team's ball-movement with his court vision and showing some ability to create offense out of the pick and roll and closeout situations in different settings. One of the more explosive scorers in FIBA Europe junior competition in recent years (career 25 points per-40, 56% TS%) the NBA team drafting Korkmaz will hope that he can offer some value as a roleplayer early on and potentially translate more of his scoring arsenal to the NBA game as his body fills out. Possessing just average length for his size, a frame that is fairly narrow, more fluidity than explosiveness, and limitations defensively that kept him off the floor for extended stretches this season, there's some question as to just how much more Korkmaz's game will round out and what more he'd be able to bring to the table beyond his size, instincts, and terrific shooting ability in the long term. He hasn't been able to break out of the one-dimensional role he's been pigeon-holed into at the senior level in Europe, and it remains to be seen if he'll be able to do so in the NBA, and how long that might take him. Only turning 19 around a month after draft day, the young guard will have plenty of time to answer those questions. He figures to come off the board in the mid to late first round, which could cause some difficulties to pay off his onerous two million dollar buyout, but it's been rumored that that number may be negotiable ultimately depending on where he lands. He has been telling NBA teams that his goal is to come to the States as soon as possible and not be stashed in Turkey, which may discourage some teams with multiple picks from electing to pick him. If that is the case, Korkmaz will join Enes Kanter, Ersan Ilyasova, and Omer Asik as active Turkish players in the NBA, and could become the first non-big man from his home country to play in the NBA since Ibrahim Kutluay joined the SuperSonics playing 12 minutes in the 2004-205 season in the middle of his career throughout Europe (unless Cedi Osman beats him to it). Korkmaz represents the first player in a new wave from the Mediterranean nation whose league has been of the most improved in terms of quality of competition in all of Europe over the last decade. Coming off a season that included a trip to the NIT and All-SEC First Team honors, Damian Jones returned to Nashville looking to solidify himself as an NBA prospect. Making the unusual decision to announce his intention to declare for the NBA Draft last October, some eight months before event itself, Jones figured to once again play a prominent role for the Commodores as the program aimed to return to the NCAA Tournament for the first time since 2012 and make some noise in what appeared to be a wide-open SEC. Posting slightly improved numbers in most key areas on a per-minute basis than he did as a sophomore, Jones scored 13.9 points and pulled down 6.9 rebounds per game as a junior. The former top-100 recruit came out of the gates strong, helping Kevin Stallings's team to a second place finish at the Maui Invitational, but like the Commodores on the whole, had significant ups and downs this season. He finished among the top-10 players in the SEC in points per-40 minutes pace adjusted, field goal percentage, and block rate among qualified players, helping Vanderbilt to a NCAA Tournament First Four appearance, where they were promptly dispatched by Ron Baker, Fred VanVleet and the Wichita State Shockers. Held to 5 points in that game as he was hampered by foul trouble, Jones earned All-SEC First Team honors once again, but didn't quite take the significant step forward that would have solidified his standing as one of the top big men eligible for the 2016 NBA Draft. Standing 6'11.5 in shoes with a tremendous 7'3.75 wingspan and a 244-pound frame that carries just 6.6% body fat, it isn't hard to figure out what makes Jones an intriguing NBA prospect on first glance. He may not be an Andre Drummond or DeAndre Jordan-level freak of nature, but has everything scouts look for in a center prospect physically, and a frame that still has room to grow. On top of his sheer size, Jones is also a good athlete for his size with a good mobility and explosiveness, even if he doesn't appear to be the most fluid strider running up and down the floor. Playing nearly the exact same role that he did a year ago, Jones averaged a very respectable 1.01 points per possession over 13.5 possessions per game as a junior, a side-step from the .992 he scored over 14.6 per game as a sophomore. Doing the majority of his scoring one-on-one on the block, the Louisiana native was asked to use his size to his advantage against smaller defenders and finish shots created for him in the half court. Not the most polished player in terms of his instincts as a scorer and passer, Jones was not asked to be particularly versatile for Vanderbilt. Finishing the year shooting an impressive 56% on the block, the 20-year-old big man doesn't have the most polished offensive repertoire, but his size, couple with flashes of touch on his turnaround jump shot and right handed hook allowed him to be quite effective in spurts creating for himself inside. Lacking much in the way of counter moves, Jones gets tunnel vision at times and his shot selection and feel for creating for himself isn't ideal, but as much as his game isn't pretty, it was quite efficient a year ago. Aside from his ability to score on the block, Jones did his best work by far as a finisher around the rim. Shooting 68% around the basket in the half court, the athletic big man is quick off his feet and can dunk the ball effortlessly. The limiting factor on Jones's effectiveness inside last season was how frequently he settled for difficult shots, brought the ball low allowing the defense to get into position, and didn't go up quite as strong as one would hope in traffic. To his credit, Jones didn't necessarily shy away from contact, as he got to the line for 7.7 free throws per-40 minutes pace adjusted. Unfortunately, Jones only converted 54% of his free throws last season, down from 61% a year before. His struggles at the line aren't surprising, as he made just 26% of his jump shots in the half court as well. Showing some flashes making jumpers out to 15-17 feet, but not with the kind of consistency you'd hope, Jones seems to have some upside as a shooter, but remains a long way away from being a reliable threat from the midrange. Similarly, he flashes the ability to put the ball on the floor an attack slower defenders driving to the rim, but often forces wild shots when he can't get an angle. On the whole, Jones isn't an incapable scorer, but he disappeared for stretches on the offensive end, which proved problematic on a team that could have really benefited from a workhorse scoring presence. Jones doesn't always impose his will on games, lacking a degree of toughness, intensity and assertiveness at times, but his ability to finish around the rim, draw contact, and make the most of his tools on the glass figure to be far bigger part of his role than his ability to consistently impact the game on the block. His skill level is still a work in progress and his feel and motor leave something to be desired, but we've seen a number of big men with similar physical gifts make significant leaps or find key roles at the NBA level with better coaching and player development than they found in college. The team selecting Jones will hope he can take a page out of former Vanderbilt big man Festus Ezeli's book and grow into a rotation player. Defensively, Jones is a bit of a mixed bag. Blocking a solid 2.5 shots per 40-minutes pace adjusted, Jones has some impressive flashes rejecting would-be scorers, but doesn't have great instincts contesting shots on the ball and isn't always as physically aggressive as you'd like a player his size to be around the rim. His instincts and passivity on the defensive glass are a more consistent issue as he pulled down just 7.1 defensive rebounder per-40 minutes pace adjusted, the fourth lowest mark among the 13 centers ranked in our top-100, behind a number of players with far less impressive physical profiles. Jones has the quickness to step away from the rim and defend the perimeter fairly impressively in spurts and the strength to hold his own in the post, but he frequently gets caught in no man's land, is a step slow with his awareness, and doesn't show great anticipation. Jones clearly has the physical tools to be a factor on this end, and the flashes of potential he shows leave some room for optimism, but his instincts are still catching up. Frustratingly inconsistent at times over the course of his three-year collegiate career, Jones is a one of the younger prospects in our junior rankings at just 20 years old. An Engineering Science major who has consistently been lauded for his intelligence off the floor, the flashes of good things Jones showed, coupled with his physical tools, give him the type of upside that could lead a team to bet on him in the mid to late first round. A late bloomer of sorts (RSCI #91), they'll hope he can begin to develop the kind of mean streak and consistency that would help him make better use of his physical tools as he enters his 20s, as players in his mold often develop later than most. When Jerry West confidently stated, “people are going to be sorry they didn't draft [McCaw]” it's easy to speculate that he was referencing more than just McCaw's physical skills. McCaw is an exceptionally perceptive person, let alone for an NBA neophyte just shy of his twenty-first birthday. By the numbers, McCaw puts a tremendous amount of value in building relationships - something that comes across strongly when he speaks. But this down-stated humility hides his competitive qualities - all of which are significantly above NBA norms. His humble high school beginnings, (RSCI rank of 222) was followed by two years of lawless ball with the Runnin' Rebels. The lack of early acclaim book-ended by the lack of continuity in his collegiate environment undoubtedly hindered, not only his on-court ability, but his emotional tenure as well. The combination of these factors may have skewed the perception of scouts, but should serve him well with the Warriors. McCaw's sensitivity to “chemistry” is a pendulum that should be on the upswing in a culture that preaches “Joy, Mindfulness, Compassion, and Competition” - concepts that fit McCaw's core qualities. McCaw's rate of growth should be far more rapid than most. The Warriors are uber-loaded to the point where they are likely to be resting players with even more frequency than last year. The support he should garner from enthusiastic teammates looking to develop depth - and more regular season rest - will be a boon cleaning up McCaw's rough edges quickly. McCaw needs low leverage, real game reps and quality critiques to tighten up his reads in the team defense, as well as continue to refine his shot set-up from the perimeter. But, the foundation is there with a near-perfect personality/situation mix for a surprise Year One season. 