Dragan Bender is not the next Kristaps Porzingis, and there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. He doesn't have to be to be just like the 7' 3” rim protecting, shot-making, tip dunking Latvian to be a valuable prospect and impact player at the NBA level. This time of year it's easy to fall victim to lazy comparisons that try to fit certain players into confined boxes because of one non-basketball attribute or another. While, from a scouting perspective, it's imperative to compare a prospect's physical profile, skill set and mentality to past or current NBA players to project how said prospect figures to translate to the NBA, too often these comparisons are based on how a player looks or where he's from. Enter Porzingis and Bender. Both are thin, international born 7-footers who the casual fan wasn't fed a wealth of information about in the months leading up to the draft. While he may have shown up on an occasional Twitter Vine in NBA Draft-nerd circles, Bender wasn't all over national television like the Ben Simmons' and Buddy Hield's of the world, making it easy for the casual fan to wonder if the 7' 1” Croatian forward could follow in Porzingis' footsteps and take the NBA by storm. Having evaluated Bender and Porzingis, both on film and in person over the last couple of years, it's safe to say that, while they may look somewhat similar physically, they're very different players. To show exactly how, DraftExpress took a look at how 18-year-old Bender and 18-year-old Porzingis (during the 2013-14 season, as it's important to compare and contrast players when they're at a similar stage of development) stack up in a handful of different important areas. THE PHYSICAL PROFILE During Adidas Eurocamp in June of 2015 Dragan Bender measured 6'11.5” barefoot with a 7'2” wingspan and 9'3” standing reach. Bender, who was 17 and a half at the time, weighed 216 pounds. Because Bender wasn't able to attend the 2016 NBA Draft Combine there aren't official measurements on him, but it's safe to say that he's added at least 10 pounds to his frame and may have grown a bit as well. Even if he hasn't gotten taller, 7'1” in shoes with a 9'3” standing reach are elite measurements for either big man spot. Bender is nowhere near his peak physically, and while he doesn't have a ton of girth in his upper or lower body, he shouldn't have that big of an issue filling out given his strong work ethic and mentality. Never having attended Adidas Eurocamp or the 2015 NBA Draft Combine, there aren't any official measurements for Porzingis out there. It had been reported, however, that the Latvian big man measured 7'1.5” barefoot with a 7'6” wingspan and a 240-plus pound frame in the months leading up to the draft. Porzingis was, however, always listed at 7'1” in shoes when he was Bender's age, and noticeably grew sometime between ages 18 and 19 and a half. His frame was also much less developed when he was 18, but slightly more projectable than Bender's. While both players have above average measurements for their positions, Porzingis' elite length and reach along with his slightly more projectable frame make him more physically unique than Bender. Athletically, Bender and Porzingis are quite different. The Croatian forward is extremely fluid for his size and it shows when running the floor, attacking closeouts, and chasing perimeter players around on defense. He moves well laterally for his size, and is quick off the floor, but doesn't have great leaping ability, evident by his 27.5” max vertical at 2015 Eurocamp. Porzingis, on the other hand, moved very well for his size when he was 18, but he wasn't quite as speedy running the floor or as ‘fast twitch,' especially laterally. Porzingis was, however, far more explosive in space than Bender is now, which gave him considerably more upside in a variety of areas. ANALYZING PRODUCTION Context: It's important to know the differences in level of competition that Bender and Porzingis faced. While Bender did play in seven Euroleague games and three Eurocup games, the bulk of his production game in the Israeli Superleague, where he played 31 games. The Israeli league is still a competitive professional league, but it's not on the same level as the Spanish ACB League, where Porzingis played 35 games as an 18-year-old. Bender put together a fairly efficient season for Maccabi Tel Aviv, which suffered a very down year relative to usual expectations. Playing both the three and the four, Bender made plays on the defensive end, shot it at a decent clip from three on 6.5 threes per 40 minutes, and showed his strong feel for the game, posting a positive assist to turnover ratio. While efficient, Bender didn't provide much punch as a scorer, averaging only 14.2 points per 40 and getting to the free throw line a forgettable 2.4 times per 40. Bender only reached double figures scoring in eight games (all Israeli League) and never scored more than 16 points in a game. He also left much to be desired as a defensive rebounder, grabbing only 5.6 defensive boards per-40. Although somewhat inconsistent, Porzingis showed some serious flashes in his first full season playing in the ACB. Averaging an impressive 18.2 points per-40 minutes, Porzingis had a few big games against top competition, most notably going for 20 points in 20 minutes against Real Madrid. The offensive talent was apparent, as was Porzingis' potential as a rim protector, although he wasn't overly prolific in that area (2.4 blocks per 40). He did struggle on the defensive glass, at 4.5 per-40, and didn't show much in terms of passing ability, posting a 3.8 assist percentage and an 11.2 turnover percentage. Although their numbers are somewhat similar, Porzingis' production, at least as a scorer, was more impressive given the level of play. APPROACH AND FEEL FOR THE GAME Where Bender and Porzingis may differ the most is in their approach and overall feel for the game. Bender's feel for the game is arguably his best attribute. He's a very high IQ prospect who plays within himself and makes the right decisions on the move. Although he wasn't able to show it a ton with Maccabi, he can grab a rebound, push and facilitate in transition. He plays with good patience and is a very mature decision maker. Before it's all said and done, Bender may very well be best described as a playmaking center. He approaches the game in an unselfish manner, making the extra pass more often than not, sometimes to a fault. He's not a naturally dominant scorer or boisterous personality. He plays the game the right way, understands defensive positioning and when to cut on offense, and is rarely going to give you many ‘wow' moments as a scorer. On the flip side, Porzingis plays with a confident, scorer's mentality. Even at age 18 he wasn't afraid to pull up from NBA three-point range or score 20 points in 20 minutes against Real Madrid, playing with a level of confidence that eventually helped him step into the basketball mecca as a 20-year-old and shine in a big way. Porzingis' feel for the game, however, was somewhat of a question mark as a youngster. He wasn't a lauded passer – 10 assists and 29 turnovers in 531 minutes – and, like most young big men, got lost off the ball at times defensively. The game looked a bit too fast for him at times on both ends of the floor. SHOOTING ABILITY Coming up through the youth ranks, shooting was arguably Bender's biggest flaw. He's greatly improved his stroke, however, as he shot 36% from three on 86 attempts while showing more touch than he has in the past. He was upwards of 40% from three for the majority of the season until a late-season slide. Bender isn't a very dynamic shooter, however, as he needs to be completely set with time and space. He has a bad habit of catching, standing upright and then bending his knees to get into his motion. Bender took only six off the dribble jumpers (as opposed to 82 catch and shoot jumpers) and misfired on all of them. He's made great strides as a shooter and the fact that he can knock down threes with regularity is very rare for a 7-footer, but it's important to keep in mind that he's not, and has never really been, a sharpshooter who makes shots in a variety of ways. Porzingis shot only 30% from three (4.0 attempts per 40 pace) and scored 0.863 points per possession on jump shots during the 2013-14 season. He also shot only 62.5% from the line. Despite the lack of consistency, it was clear that Porzingis had natural touch and shot a really easy ball. He made a few jumpers on the move and his shot proved nearly unblockable given his size and release point. He had yet to reach his full potential as a shooter and was nowhere near the shot maker that he's become at the NBA level, but the foundation was there. While the percentages favor Bender, the eye test wins out as Porzingis' stroke is more effortless, dynamic and translatable. CREATING OFFENSE Bender isn't a guy who's going to create much offense for himself in the half court. He can attack a closeout and grab and go in transition, but he's limited in terms of shot creation both from the perimeter and in the post. He gets knocked off balance when trying to attack from a standstill and isn't a threat to pull up off the dribble, although it's important to note that he was being defended by quicker, perimeter players more often than not. Bender also really struggled on the block – 0.33 PPP – as he lacks the physicality to hold position and isn't very advanced or skilled when he is able to operate from inside of 10 feet or so. He's not absent of touch but he doesn't have a turnaround or really any advanced moves in his arsenal. Aside from spot up jumpers and occasional straight line drives, Bender is fairly limited as a scorer in general. At age 18, Porzingis wasn't consistently creating offense for himself but he showed enough potential to see how he'd develop that aspect of his game in the future. Scoring 0.92 PPP in isolations (12 possessions) and 1.286 PP in the post (14 possessions) Porzingis showed glimpses by mixing in occasional pull up jumpers and turnarounds from the post. He struggled to maintain position on the block and was often bumped off track as a driver, but had the touch to get to his jumper when he was able to catch inside. Porzingis had some of the same issues Bender faces in terms of holding position in the post or getting all the way to the rim with a defender on his hip. Bender is also a better ball handler than Porzingis was at the same stage. With that said, Porzingis had a more dynamic jumper to fall back on and he used that both from the perimeter and out of face up or post up situations, which made him more of a threat to create his own offense and score in general. FINISHING ABILITY Despite being 7'1” with a 9'3” standing reach, Bender has some struggles finishing over length and through contact given his slight build and average vertical explosiveness. While he scored an impressive 1.368 PPP at the rim, he took only 38 shots at the cup, a testament to his preference to avoid contact and operate more on the perimeter. He operated as the roll man in only 3.8% of his used possessions and doesn't show a ton of potential as a lob catcher or pick and roll finisher. 18-year-old Porzingis also had his struggles finishing through contact and over length. He attempted only 2.4 free throws per 40 minutes (the same as Bender) and shied away from physicality at times, although he did take 101 shots at the rim, scoring only 1.01 PPP. He wasn't all that explosive from a standstill and that hurt him a bit when receiving drop offs around the rim. Porzingis did, however, show major potential as a roll man and lob catcher as he was a very good leaper in space and had the reach to throw down most everything that was lofted up around the rim. Porzingis operated much more around the rim when he was 18 and had a little bit more fight and physicality in him than Bender does at this stage. He was more explosive in space and more dynamic as a roller, whereas a lot of Bender's finishes come off of put backs or straight line drives. REBOUNDING Playing mostly on the perimeter for Maccabi, Bender wasn't mixing it up on the glass all that often. His 14.3 defensive rebound percentage is below average, mostly a result of his lack of physicality and elite leaping ability in traffic. He crashed the offensive glass from the perimeter a decent amount, but wasn't all that willing to throw his body around and scrap for boards. He has solid instincts and his reach and mobility will help him improve as a rebounder, but it's not something that he hangs his hat on. Porzingis also struggled on the defensive glass at age 18. He lacked the body to keep opponents on his back and his awareness left something to be desired, resulting in a defensive rebounding percentage of 12.8. He did, however, do a nice job flying in from the perimeter, setting the table for some of the tip dunks that took the NBA by storm during his rookie year. Porzingis also showed flashes as a defensive rebounder with his ability to cover ground, leap in space and use his reach and strong hands to grab boards in traffic. Porzingis had better tools on the glass at the same age but both guys struggled equally in that area due to similar deficiencies. Bender shows a better IQ and discipline than Porzingis did, whereas Porzingis had a little more fight along with a slightly better frame, longer arms and more bounce. DEFENSE Bender and Porzingis have quite a few differences in terms of defensive strengths and weaknesses. Bender's defensive versatility at 7'1” is one the things that makes him intriguing as a prospect. He has the quickness to switch ball screens and either keep the ball contained or recover swiftly. He spent much of the season chasing around wings and guards, which is very unique for a player his size, especially at 18 years for a storied franchise like Maccabi Tel Aviv. He's a bit hunched guarding the perimeter, but his foot speed and agility are definitely strengths of his in today's switch-heavy NBA. Bender can also protect the rim a little bit thanks to his reach and quick leaping, but he's far from a defensive anchor. He's not all that intimidating at the rim given his frame and doesn't have much pop as a leaper. Bender makes up for some of the deficiencies with his defensive IQ. Post defense is where Bender really struggles defensively. Tall with a fairly weak base and a high center of gravity, opponents can duck in on him and knock him off balance with relative ease. He shows more fight than his stature would suggest, but defending in the post both before and after the catch is an area where bender needs to improve. He also is a bit foul prone despite having a strong IQ. All in all Bender has a lot of defensive value in today's NBA, especially once he fills out down the road. At age 18 Porzingis wasn't switching ball screens or chasing around perimeter players like Bender. He also wasn't the defensive anchor he's shown he can be at the NBA level. His fundamentals and discipline weren't great, and he too didn't quite have the frame to strike fear into slashing wings. Porzingis' off-ball awareness held him back a bit as a shot blocker as well, although he did show flashes of timing and instincts. Porzingis' potential rim protection was always one of his main sources of intrigue due to his physical tools, the biggest question was unlocking the mental side of things. While he was fluid for his size, he wasn't all that effective out on the perimeter. His lateral quickness was average and his fast-twitch muscles weren't always firing. He had the length to switch screens and at least hand contest if he gave himself enough space, but it wasn't a major strength of his. Porzingis was fairly competitive as a post defender but he lacked the lower body strength to hold his own consistently, relying more on length to alter shots out of the post. Porzingis, who grew up defending wings as a 16-year-old, had quite a bit of room to improve his defensive instincts and fundamentals as an 18-year-old, although he showed major flashes. It would be very surprising if Bender stepped into the NBA and began torching the nets the way Porzingis did as a rookie. He's a full year behind Porzingis in age and development, and doesn't have the type of wow factor, scoring ability, or physical tools that Knicks fans and NBA die-hards alike fell in love with. But Bender has the type of unique combination of size, fluidity, passing ability and shooting potential that should make him a very valuable player in his own right. He may not be the second coming of 36Latvia, but Bender is a lock to go in the top 10 of Thursday's draft, and his ability to grab and go, facilitate, guard the perimeter and make threes at 7'1” will allow him to create his own legacy. Thon Maker, a Sudanese 7-footer by way of Australia who plays his high school basketball in Canada, will attempt to enter the 2016 NBA Draft, multiple sources with knowledge of the situation told DraftExpress. The 19-year old Maker believes he has a strong case to be considered draft eligible, since he reportedly graduated high school in Canada in June of 2015, and is now technically in his fifth year of high school. The official NBA collective bargaining agreement rule states that a player can be eligible for selection in the NBA Draft if “the player is or will be at least nineteen years of age during the calendar year in which the Draft is held, and, at least one NBA Season has elapsed since the player's graduation from high school.” Subsequently, Maker has elected to withdraw from participating in the Nike Hoop Summit event this upcoming week in Portland in order to focus on his workouts and preparation for the draft. Maker had participated in last year's event and did not leave a strong impression throughout the week of practices and games. Once considered a potentially transcendent prospect, mostly by uninformed voices based on his Youtube highlight reels, Maker's draft stock has never really gotten off the ground in the eyes of NBA scouts as he has struggled to separate himself in many of the events he's been seen at. Besides Portland last year, the last exposure NBA scouts have gotten to Maker came in Toronto at the NBA Basketball Without Borders Global Camp during All-Star Weekend, which we attended alongside numerous scouts and executives. Maker had a better showing there, but still did not dominate the event the way some may have expected considering he was the oldest player in attendance. Still, Maker is very highly regarded by the high school recruiting services, as he's ranked as a top five prospect in the loaded 2016 class by Scout.com. His competitiveness, physicality and intensity level are impressive for a 7-footer with a 9'3 standing reach, and the fact that he's been able to add some bulk to his upper body and can knock down an open 3-pointer at times bodes well for his role-playing potential. So will his work ethic and strong character. Still, his lack of offensive polish, pencil thin legs, average feel for the game and explosiveness suggest that may be the extent of his long-term upside. And considering how big the jump is from high school basketball to the NBA, it will likely take years to achieve that, which some teams may feel is not worth the time or effort it will require. With that in mind, Maker will be relying on building momentum in pre-draft workouts and potentially the NBA Combine to try and cement himself as a first round caliber prospect. If he can showcase a more polished offensive arsenal than he's been able to display up until now, in particular a more consistent jump-shot, he could certainly help his standing. College coaches may express disappointment in Maker's decision, as he had taken official visits to schools like Kansas as recently as the past few weeks. Amateurism concerns were likely always going to be a significant hurdle in Maker's ability to ever get eligible for college, and may have played a role in his surprise decision to enter the 2016 NBA Draft. Maker will now wait to see if the NBA agrees with his belief that he should be considered draft-eligible already in 2016. One of a number of intriguing international early entrants for the 2016 NBA Draft, Georgios Papagiannis is one of the more unique prospects among the group, having taking a somewhat circuitous route to this point. Making his first division (A1) debut in his native Greece for Peristeri at just 14 years old, Papagiannis emerged as one of the most promising prospects in his homeland at a shockingly young age. Turning in a solid showing playing up a year at the 2012 FIBA U16 Europeam Championship, Papagiannis subsequently returned to Peristeri, where he made a pair of appearances at the A1 level while playing primarily for the club's junior team through the end of the 2013 season. It was that point where Papagiannis career took a somewhat unique turn relative to many of his peers in the international game. Making the leap across the Atlantic to attend Westtown School after averaging a double-double at the 2013 FIBA U16 European Championship, Papagiannis appeared to pivot towards college eligibility, completing a season at the small Pennsylvania based private school classified as a 2015 recruit. Splitting the subsequent spring and summer between the Nike EYBL where he averaged 8.1 points and 6.1 rebounds per game and both the FIBA U18 European and U17 World Championships, Papagiannis's strong showing garnered considerable interest back in his native Greece, ultimately leading the talented young center to do a 180 and sign with historic Athens-based club Panathinaikos, though he retained his amateur status to leave open the possibility he could attend college. Averaging 3.8 points and 3.5 rebounds per game in limited action playing alongside veteran big men Antonsis Fotsis, Esteban Batista, and Loukas Mavrokefalidis, Papagiannis played exclusively in the Greek League during the 2014-2015 season before yet another two appearances in FIBA play, this time at the 2015 U19 World Championship where he scored 8.1 points, 7.7 rebounds, and 2.6 blocks per game, as well as the FIBA U18 European Championship, where he was named to the All-Tournament Team. Opting to turn pro and spurn the advances of the college programs that had hoped to convince him to return to the United States, Papagiannis entered this season figuring to play a bigger role and see action in the Euroleague coming off the bench. Averaging 5.5 points and 2.5 rebounds over 10.3 minutes per game, Papagiannis played a modest role, but nonetheless solidified himself as potential late first round or early second round pick. As has been the case since he emerged as a player to watch in his early teens, Papagiannis's intrigue starts with his tremendous physical stature. Standing 7'2 with a 260-pound frame that he has toned considerably to aid his conditioning over the last year, Papagiannis is an imposing presence inside. He could still stand to continue improving his frame, but his improvement physically from last season is apparent in the way he gets up and down the floor, when motivated. He isn't overly nimble, but he runs well, has impressive explosiveness off two feet for a player his size, and is far more comfortable with the pace of the professional game than he was a year ago. Playing a relatively small role, often asked to play hard for a single stretch many nights, Papagiannis nonetheless showed the ability to make use of his size and newly improved conditioning in impressive fashion this season. Setting solid screens, running the floor, and finishing what's created for him offensively, the massive Greek center scored with excellent efficiency, even when operating one-on-one in the post. Panathinaikos didn't lean on him to score, but he thrived at times in the role he was slated to play. Scoring 21.3 points per 40-minutes pace adjusted on 64% shooting, up from 15.1 points on 55% last season, Papagiannis's game matured quite a bit this season, even if he didn't earn extensive minutes. His best asset offensively at this stage is his combination of size and agility. Possessing terrific hands and proving quicker off his feet than one might expect, Papagiannis is an excellent target for drop passes and lobs inside, and a good offensive rebounder when he's competing. Shooting an impressive 72% around the rim in the half court and transition combined, the young big man finishes very consistently around the basket thanks to his coordination and ability to play effortlessly above the rim. Finishing the season with more dunks than layups on the year, his ability to convert lobs off of two feet was impressive at times. More than just a finisher, Papagiannis also found success operating one-on-one in the post, albeit in limited opportunities. Using a reliable right handed hook to score over the defense, but showing some development with his left hand as well, the young Greek's ability to carve out space with his strong lower body, coupled with solid touch and budding footwork, allowed him to make up for his lack of counter-moves and quickness on the block last season. Shooting 57% with his back to the basket according to Synergy Sports Technology, Papagiannis's interior repertoire proved brutally effective when his teammates did look for him inside. A 66% free throw shooter who did little damage from the perimeter a year ago, Papagiannis isn't a particularly versatile or dynamic big man at this stage. He does most of his damage right around the rim, lacking a degree of variety in his offensive game. Despite that, he has a decent feel for the game and is by no means a liability with the ball in his hands, as his coordination is fairly impressive and leaves some room for optimism that he could become a threat from 15 feet down the road if he puts in the work to get there. Given his relative youth, there's plenty to like about his offensive game on the whole at this stage, even if he is a touch predictable. Defensively, Papagiannis's outlook isn't quite as rosy. Despite his size, he doesn't play with particularly impressive toughness or discipline inside, and his sheer size works against him when he is asked to defend the perimeter. A reliable shot blocker on the youth level, his lack of great explosiveness limits his potential as a rim protector in the NBA, even if he could definitely provide some value there based on his size alone. A passable rebounder with extremely sure hands, Papagiannis's motor tends to run colder than one might hope. He certainly has the tools to hold his own in the post and rebound the ball at a stronger rate, but whether he begins to do either consistently or become a serviceable option against the pick and roll remains to be seen. Even with his shortcomings defensively, Papagiannis is nonetheless a very intriguing center prospect. The NBA has moved away from jumbo centers in his mold, but there is unquestionably still a place for a player with his combination of size and coordination. Often knocked for his dicey motor and ability to stay engaged consistently over the years, the 18 year old showed marked improvement this season, and at just 18 years old, has plenty of upside, making him a very interesting draft and stash option. Among the more intriguing international early entrants for the 2016 NBA Draft, Guerschon Yabusele was one of the only players under the age of 21 to see significant action in the French first division (Pro A) this season. Averaging 11.5 points and 6.8 rebounds per game for often outmanned Rouen, who were relegated to the second division after finishing just 6-28, the powerfully built forward became one of just three draft-eligible domestic players this decade to end the year averaging over 10 points and 5 rebounds per game, joining Ludovic Vaty and Mouhammadou Jaiteh. Born in Dreux, a town of 30,000 an hour west of Paris, Yabusele spent the early part of his career with Roanne, playing exclusively in the Junior League (Espoirs). The thick power forward also played a minor role at a number of international events in his late teens, for example Team Africa at the 2013 adidas Nations, as well as France's U18 and U20 National Teams. A bit of a late bloomer, Yabusele made his Pro A debut in 2013, but didn't see significant action at the senior level until Roanne was relegated to Pro B during the 2014-2015 season. Averaging 8.5 points and 4.3 rebounds per game as a regular starter, Yabusele began to show some promising signs, albeit against less than stellar competition. His jump into the collective conscious of NBA decision makers came at the 2015 EuroCamp, where, in front of representatives of every NBA team, including over a dozen General Managers, the then 19-year-old big man scored 20 points per game posting a PER of 48 for France's U20 National Team in three preparation games, thoroughly dominating offensively. Averaging a less impressive 9.2 points and 6.6 rebounds per game at the actual U20 European Championship, Yabusele had nonetheless planted himself firmly on the radar of NBA scouts entering this season, as he made the jump back to Pro A, signing with Rouen (not to be confused with Roanne). Measured on the NBA workout circuit in recent weeks at 6'8 in shoes with a near-7'2 wingspan and tipping the scales around 270 pounds, it isn't difficult to see what makes him an interesting prospect on first glance. Yabusele has a massive frame that appears to be able to gain and lose weight quickly, and though he is slightly undersized for a power forward, he compensates with his wingspan and nice explosiveness. What makes Yabusele unique, aside from his physical tools, is that he appears very comfortable playing facing the basket offensively and possesses terrific scoring instincts. Playing a massive role for Rouen, especially down the stretch when he played all 40 minutes on a number of occasions, and enjoyed a huge amount of freedom, the talented big man did around a third of his scoring from the perimeter on spot up or pick and pop opportunities according to Synergy Sports Technology. Contributing in a variety of ways in the paint cutting off the ball, running the floor, crashing the boards, and even creating a bit for himself in the post, Yabusele wasn't overwhelmingly productive in any one area, but did a bit of everything offensively. Perhaps the most intriguing element of the French forward's game is his jump shot. A reliable shooter with his feet set all the way to the 3-point line, Yabusele shoots a bit of a set shot getting very little elevation, but has a fluid release. He attempted just 1.8 3-pointers per game this season, but made 43% of his attempts and 43% of long twos. Understanding his limitations and shooting very few pull up jumpers, Yabusele seems to have some potential as a legitimate floor spacer, though it will be interesting to see how his shot (and two-handed above the head release point) translates to the NBA 3-point line. Around the basket, Yabusele is a good, but not great finisher. Shooting 57% around the rim in the half court, the 1995-born forward tries to tear the rim down with dunks when he can elevate in space, and carves out good position bullying opposing players with his frame, but isn't particularly quick off his feet and forces some shots driving to the basket from the mid-post around defenders. Flashing solid footwork, Yabusele tosses in the occasional half hook spinning off of defenders, but has room to improve his left hand and shot selection inside. Finishing in the top-20 in Pro A in offensive rebounds per 40 minutes pace adjusted, and setting some solid screens to free up teammates, Yabusele does some of the little things as well, but isn't overly physical despite his strength. He has a lot of room to grow as a playmaker, but also flashes solid vision at times. A fairly skilled offensive player with terrific hands who can even put the ball on the floor a bit, Yabusele has some interesting tools to work with offensively. The challenge for the bruising big man moving forward will be on the defensive end, where Yabusele struggled mightily this season. Rouen was the worst defensive team in Pro A by a comfortable margin, so expectations were fairly low, but Yabusele did little to help matters, frequently seeming to be going through the motions. Lacking great lateral quickness on the perimeter and providing little rim protection, Yabusele's length and strength help him in the post at times when he's competing, but he has a number of significant questions to answer on this end. At this stage, the jury is out on what Yabusele could be capable of in a more demanding environment with a bigger focus on defensive coaching and conditioning. To his credit, he looked far more engaged and showed better feet in other settings than he did at almost any point this season. Making huge strides over the last two seasons, Guerschon Yabusele is a strong draft and stash candidate who could find his way into the late first or early second round depending on his willingness to stay in Europe for another year (or two). His defensive ability is a huge question mark, but if he can make significant strides on that end, particularly as a rim protector, he could even feasibly have some potential as a small-ball center. He is a little green at this point, but there's plenty to like about his game moving forward. Yabusele's contract situation is interesting. Rouen bought his rights from Roanne last summer. He has a NBA out clause for this summer, and his team was relegated to Pro B, meaning a change of scenery is obviously coming. If the team drafting Yabusele wants him in the NBA immediately then there is nothing to be seen here, but if a team wants to stash him in Europe this coming season, he'll need to find a way out of his current contract if he wants to move to a more favorable development situation, which may require some creativity. After taking over the starting point guard spot for Vanderbilt midway through his freshman season, Wade Baldwin was in prime position to make a massive jump forward for Kevin Stallings and the Vanderbilt Commodores as a sophomore. In many respects, Baldwin's sophomore campaign was a success. He finished the year averaging 14.1 points, 5.2 assists, and 1.2 steals per game, helping the Commodores bounce back from a disappointing mid-season stretch to finish with a 19-12 regular season record and an NCAA tournament appearance, where they lost in the play-in game to Wichita State. Baldwin's excellent physical profile, which has him standing 6'3” in height, with a ridiculous 6'10” wingspan and a well-built frame, creates quite a bit of intrigue around him as a prospect, especially on the defensive end, where his size and lateral mobility give him the potential to defend two positions down the line, versatility that decision makers are always craving. Offensively, the first thing that jumps out on Baldwin, both on his stat sheet and when watching film, is his perimeter shooting, as he's made 40.6% of his 199 three-point attempts during his two seasons in college. He's most prolific as a shooter off the catch, where he shot 42% on the season and over 43% when left unguarded, both numbers which, when accounting for the fact that the vast majority of those attempts were from three-point range, were well above average, yielding 1.246 and 1.267 points per shot, respectively, according to Synergy Sports Technology. Baldwin was much less comfortable as a shooter off the dribble, despite yielding 0.829 points per shot on such attempts, a better-than-average figure. When watching him in game situations, the results off the dribble were pretty inconsistent, with pronounced hot and cold spells which made it a tough facet of his game to rely on. Baldwin doesn't get a lot of elevation on his jump shots and has a low release point that's almost out in front of his body, which makes his shot a little bit easier to contest, and thus requires more time and space to get it off, factors which could impact his effectiveness pulling up off the dribble, and creating shots overall for himself and others, at the next level. The other main problem with Baldwin in a half court setting is his struggles both getting to, and finishing, in the paint, struggles which exist for a multitude of reasons. Baldwin is fast when he has built up a head of steam, something which becomes evident in transition, but he lacks the elite burst to turn the corner on a defender in the half court, and struggles to get into the paint because of it. He doesn't offset this with an overly advanced dribble, either, and doesn't change speeds, or direction, quite as well as you would want in a primary ball handler. Finally, when Baldwin gets into the paint he has only average explosiveness around the hoop, and his lack of a consistent in-between game --- both in the form of pull-up jump shot or a floater in the lane – makes game planning against him relatively easy for a defense. Baldwin does have a strong, developed upper body, and he uses that to initiate contact and get to the free throw line at a rate of 7.7 times per 40 minutes, pace adjusted, an incredible rate for somebody of his relatively low usage. This helps offset some of his struggles at the rim, but shooting just 38% on half court shots around the basket, as Synergy has logged for Baldwin, is something he's going to have to improve upon significantly at the next level. Baldwin's struggles to really turn the corner and get into the paint with regularity also limit him somewhat as a shot creator for others. He is a willing, and able, passer, who has some creativity, both out of pick and roll situations and on drive and kicks, but he can force the issue at times driving to the hoop, leading to both offensive foul calls and getting himself in dangerous situations without having a plan on how to pass out of them. He can also get sloppy with a handle that all too frequently is high and off balance, which both limits his ability to turn the corner, but also makes him prone to being stripped of the ball more often he ideally would, and overall his 3.6 turnovers per 40 minutes, pace adjusted, is the second worst mark among point guards in our top-100 rankings, are a clear area in need of improvement. Defensively, Baldwin's size, with his elite 6'10” wingspan and developed upper body, gives him a considerable amount of potential to defend either guard position. When engaged, Baldwin is close to realizing that potential, as he has the lateral mobility to stay in front of his man, the length to close out and contest shots, and the strength to fight through screens. The problem is Baldwin is too frequently not engaged, and can be prone to being caught sleeping off the ball, especially ball watching looking for passing lanes to jump. Still, he has enormous potential on this side of the court, the effort is mostly there, and it's easy to envision him becoming a plus defender in the NBA. The foundation that Wade Baldwin possess – ability to hit an open shot, willingness to set up his teammates, size to be a force defensively – is a very attractive combination for NBA teams in need of guard depth, and should make him a relatively safe bet to be a contributor at the next level. Still, there's a lack of refinement – in his ball handling, in his ability to shoot off the dribble, in his lack of understanding of the nuances of creating space with misdirection and changing speed – that suggests he's far from a finished product, which creates a player with considerable room for growth, but also one who could ultimately become frustrating if he never reaches his full potential. Baldwin's propensity for accepting coaching, being a positive teammate, and overall mental makeup will play a major role in his ability to reach his ceiling. Across the landscape of international basketball, it's difficult to find a draft prospect who has been more productive this season than Cibona's Ante Zizic. Zizic currently ranks as the best rebounder in the Adriatic league, despite turning 19 only a few weeks ago, and is also pumping in over 20 points per-40 minutes on a stellar 65% true shooting percentage. Considering he's doing that against physically mature and highly experienced big men who are 5-15 years older than him on any given night, that's pretty impressive. The following chart explores who the most productive under-22 players in European basketball have been thus far (minimum 10 games, 15mpg+). The fact that Ziziz leads this group in PER, despite being the only player on it not born in 1994 or 1995, is certainly eye-opening. Zizic has solid physical attributes for the center position, standing somewhere between 6'10 and 6'11, with a long wingspan, and an outstanding frame that will likely continue to fill out in time. He is a good athlete on top of that, running the floor fluidly, having very nimble feet, and being capable of playing above the rim in space. Zizic's game is predicated off his physical tools, but also off his sheer aggressiveness. He does everything with maximum effort, be it sprinting the floor, setting screens and rolling to the basket, or using his strong frame to carve out space inside the paint for entry passes. That's demonstrated quite nicely in the way he gets to the free throw line, over eight times per-40 minutes. It also shows up in his rebounding ability, which might be his best asset now as a prospect at this stage. He is a tough guy who relishes contact, doing a great job of boxing out opponents, tipping balls to himself, and going well out of his area on both ends of the floor to track down loose balls. He is pulling down over 12 rebounds per-40 minutes on average in both of the competitions Cibona plays in (Adriatic League and FIBA Europe Cup). That figure is the second highest rate in Adriatic league history among players under the age of 20, trailing only Jusuf Nurkic. Zizic sees a decent amount of his offense with his back to the basket, where he possesses a basic, but effective, post game. He uses his strong frame and works hard to establish deep post position, flashing solid footwork, soft touch, and the ability to turn to both shoulders and finish with either hand. His post arsenal isn't terribly refined, as he has a tendency to play too fast at times, and is still working on his ability to utilize fakes, counters and advanced moves when he doesn't have great post position. Zizic also gets quite a few touches operating off the ball, be it as a cutter or roll man. He sets big, wide screens and dives to the rim with real purpose, showing excellent mobility and timing in the pick and roll. His long arms and soft hands make him a very effective weapon in these situations, and with a running start, he is capable of playing above the rim with authority. While almost all of Zizic's offense comes in the direct vicinity of the basket, and there are certainly some questions about how his skill-level might evolve over time, he does show nice touch from the free throw line (73%), and has demonstrated some flashes of an effective mid-range jumper that could possibly be polished into something over time. That's important, because as he makes the next step up in the level of competition, be it to the Euroleague or the NBA, where the big men are significantly taller, stronger and more athletic than the somewhat weakened Adriatic League, he won't be able to rely as heavily as he currently does on his strength and sheer aggressiveness, and will likely be forced to develop a more versatile skill-set. Zizic's lack of finesse is perhaps most notably demonstrated in his passing ability, which is extremely unrefined to say the least right now. He looks like a bull in a china shop at times, dishing out just 14 assists in 629 minutes on the season thus far, or one every 45 minutes he's on the floor. Compare his paltry 4.9% assist percentage with his very high 19.5% turnover rate, and it's safe to say he is somewhat of a black hole at this stage of his development. The game moves a little too fast for him at times offensively, and he can be very predictable with the way he telegraphs his moves and spins right into traffic. Defensively, Zizic is more than willing to compete, and he does a good job of putting a body on opposing big men, and working to contest shots all over the floor. You'll see him switch out on ball screens at times and stay in front of smaller players, using his solid wingspan, nimble feet and excellent motor to deliver some hope of being able to develop in this area down the road. With that said, it's clear that his fundamentals and technique are still a work in progress, which is not a shock considering his age. He doesn't cover ground exceptionally well, having a tough time with experienced big men who can operate facing the basket in particular. He's too aggressive closing out, and will get caught in no man's land on pick and rolls at times, which makes sense as someone who just turned 19 playing in a grown man's league, but is something he'll have to clean up over time. While he does a nice job of elevating off two feet and staying vertical around the basket to contest and block shots at times, it's difficult to see him evolving into a major rim-protector in the NBA, since he does not have elite physical tools. NBA teams may wonder what it is that separates Zizic as a starting caliber prospect, as there is nothing extraordinary about his size, length, athleticism or skill-set, even if there's nothing particularly deficient about any of those areas either. Considering his seemingly average feel for the game and mechanical skill-level, will what he's doing offensively translate to better settings considering how down the Adriatic League appears to be at the moment? With that said, there is undoubtedly a place in the NBA for someone with the rebounding ability and motor he displays as an energetic role-player, and it is certainly difficult to rule out a player who has been as productive as Zizic has this year, in a league that has produced countless NBA players (around 50 NBA Draft picks have been through the Adriatic League according to our database). After all, Zizic (so far) ranks #2 in PER in Adriatic League history among players under the age of 20 (see chart). NBA teams are still learning more about this player who is just becoming draft-eligible for the first time this year, and it remains to be seen if he'll decide to put his name in the draft pool this spring. In the meantime, they will continue to monitor him closely, especially now that his team has been eliminated from the FIBA Europe Cup. The #29 recruit in the 2015 high school class according to the RSCI, Malachi Richardson had a successful freshman regular season, being named to the ACC All-Rookie Team. He really took off in the NCAA Tournament, though, scoring 21 points against Dayton in opening round, and stringing together another 21 points in the second half alone in a memorable comeback victory over Virginia in the Elite Eight. Richardson's late-game heroics (including against Gonzaga in the Elite 8) played a huge role in Syracuse's improbable run to the Final Four, being one of four double-digit seeds to accomplish that feat in NCAA Tournament history. Richardson has ideal height and length for a NBA wing player, measured a hair over 6'6 in shoes, with a gigantic 7-foot wingspan, and a solid frame that should continue to fill out in time. He's just an average athlete, however, as he doesn't possess great quickness or explosiveness, which hampers him at times offensively as. That shows up most vividly in transition, where Richardson converted just 40% of his field goal attempts, ranking 325 of the 341 collegiate players with at least 90 possessions according to Synergy Sports Tech. Nevertheless, Richardson shows impressive scoring prowess as both a shot-maker and shot-creator, as he's capable of putting the ball in the basket instinctually from all over the floor, making extremely difficult plays look easy. Although quite streaky in terms of overall results (35% 3P%, 72% FT%), Richardson has compact mechanics and excellent balance in his lower body, shooting the ball smoothly with deep range and a fairly quick release. He can create separation impressively from defenders, stopping on a dime or using nifty footwork and sharp step-backs to rise over the defense and drill contested looks out of isolation situations. In catch and shoot situations, Richardson hops into his shot and releases the ball in one fluid motion, demonstrating great potential to develop into a dangerous perimeter threat if he can find a way to hone his shot-selection. If he can develop into the knockdown shooter his touch and talent throwing the ball in the basket indicates, there is no question he will have a long career in the NBA. Taking advantage of the long leash afforded to him with extended minutes and a very short bench, Richardson attempted more shots off the dribble (124 attempts) than he did with his feet set (90 attempts) as a freshman, which led to some very inconsistent results. His 51.6% true shooting percentage is the second lowest rate of any collegiate player projected to be drafted, while his 38.9% 2P% ranks dead last among DX Top-100 prospects. It is historically difficult to find players who make the NBA shooting that low of a percentage from inside the arc, with only three players we can find in our database dating back 30+ years having been picked in the same season after posting a 2P% under 40%: Randy Livingston (#42 pick in 1996, 36.5% in 13 games), Andrew Harrison (#44 in 2015, 38%) and Josh Selby (#49 pick in 2011, 38%). Richardson's struggles are a combination of bad shot-selection in the mid-range area (where he hit just 24% of his 2-point jumpers), to go along with his difficulties finishing effectively inside the paint. His game is built heavily around taking and making contested shots, and he can be quite a ball-stopper at times, overdribbling and freezing out his teammates frequently, not really reacting to the defense, and deciding what shot he wants to take before he starts his move. This is a tough way of making a living, but when those contested jump-shots are falling, it can be extremely impressive. The problem is when they don't, he can shoot his team right out of games. The hope is he can learn how to better utilize his talent and figure out how to take advantage of his terrific scoring instincts in a more structured role under the tutelage of a strong NBA coaching staff. He actually shows some promise utilizing jab-steps or subtle change of speeds and directions to get to the basket using his strong frame and long strides, as he can get low to the ground and has nice body control, and is extremely aggressive initiating and absorbing contact at the rim with nice toughness. He can attack an unbalanced defense off closeouts or quick actions, as well as create his own shot out of pick and roll or isolation situations, mixing in low crossovers with a powerful first step, helping him build up a full head of steam en route to the basket. He just can't always finish what he creates, converting a very poor 46% of his “inside the paint” field goal attempts in the half-court, which is partially due to his inability to play above the rim and as well as his very poor shot-selection. He often drives right into the teeth of the defense without a plan, forcing up tough looks regardless of having a defender on his hip, after being unable to turn the corner on his initial move. Richardson doesn't look to pass the ball often enough, but shows some potential in drive and dish situations when he actually does, averaging a decent 2.7 assists per-40. He looks for his own offense almost exclusively, but will surprise you at times with his ability to find teammates on the move. He's not as effective passing the ball from a standstill, though, often turning it over when he tries, which can lead to some bad body language, both from him and his teammates. Defensively, Richardson has the tools to be very effective, as he moves his feet and covers ground well, using his exceptional length to contest shots on the perimeter and get in the passing lanes. He doesn't always play up to his full potential on this end of the floor, though, as his effort level comes and goes, and he has average awareness, gambling for steals wildly and committing some low IQ fouls. This isn't particularly rare for a freshman, though, and it seems he has the tools to be effective in this area as he learns how to be more solid in man to man settings, after playing zone exclusively at Syracuse. Richardson is one of the more hotly debated prospects in this draft among NBA scouts, as opinions range wildly regarding where he should be picked. His supporters point to the difficulties all NBA teams are finding currently in acquiring shot-making wing players with length who can also create their own offense, and think their coaching staff can tone down the freshman's fearless style with their player development system. His detractors are turned off by his extreme inefficiency and poor all-around productivity (14.6 PER), wondering if he's athletic enough to play as selfishly as he often does. They'll also point to the fact that he is older than many of the sophomores expected to be drafted next month, and is only six months younger than one even junior in Damian Jones. It will be very interesting to see how things play out. Coming off a solid junior season that saw him take home All-ACC Third Team honors, North Carolina's Brice Johnson emerged in a huge way as one of the most productive big men in the country as a senior. Taking a significant step forward in his development averaging 17 points and 10.5 rebounds per game while helping guide the Tar Heels to a National Championship appearance, Johnson solidified his standing as one of the top NBA prospects in the senior class and a potential first round pick. Johnson's NBA potential, as it has throughout his entire career, starts with his sensational athleticism, even if he's a bit of a mixed bag from a physical standpoint. At 6'9 with a 6'11 wingspan Johnson lacks great length for his height, and even though he's added some 40 pounds to his frame since his high school days, remains fairly skinny. The South Carolina native does not have outstanding size, but he is, without question, an outstanding athlete. A bouncy interior player with good speed, impressive fluidity, and the type of elite leaping ability that allows him to play above the rim with absolute ease, Johnson's explosiveness is his clear calling card as a prospect. Putting his athletic merits to good use on the offensive end, Johnson did most of his damage this season as a finisher, primarily off of cuts, put backs, and fast breaks as his effort, instincts, and explosiveness frequently paid off inside. He also saw touches consistently one-on-one in the post as he created some 30% of his offense himself operating on the block according to Synergy Sports Technology. He ended the season ranked eighth in the country in points per possession among the 267 Division I players who used over 500 total possessions. Upping his scoring rate from 19.7 points per 40-minutes pace adjusted as a junior to 25 as a senior, Johnson took on and excelled in a bigger role emerging as the first option on a balanced Tar Heel squad that looked far better on offense some nights than others. When the Tar Heel offense was rolling, Johnson was one of the primary beneficiaries, as he was one of the most efficiency scorers in the country converting shots created for him. Finishing at an outrageous 83% clip in transition and a markedly improved 69% in the half court, up from 64% a year ago, Johnson's ability to convert lobs, dump-off passes, and create easy shots for himself on the glass stood out at times. A highlight waiting to happen, Johnson seems like the type of athletic big man who could contribute at the next level with his hustle on the glass and athleticism off the ball, especially if he's paired with a dynamic, shot creating guard. On top of his ability to finish, Johnson's athleticism also translates fairly well to the post. Lacking great bulk, he isn't adept at establishing deep position inside, but he has solid footwork and though his repertoire is a bit predictable, his ability to elevate often allows him to get his shot off when well defended. Making quick, decisive moves on the block, Johnson makes hook shots at the nice rate over his left shoulder and has fairly solid touch on his turnaround jump shot over his right, but will also use aggressive drop steps to get to the baseline where he tries, and sometimes succeeds to score from difficult angles jumping from behind the rim. Johnson doesn't tend to use many counter-moves, leading to some tough shots when the defense anticipates his first move correctly, but the senior shot a very respectable 48% operating one-on-one on the block nonetheless, thanks to his ability to use his athleticism to shed his defender or rise up and score over him at the college level. Doing the vast majority of his scoring inside, it will be interesting to see how Johnson's offensive game develops in the coming years. His lack of strength may prove more problematic at the NBA level than it did in the college game, and though he only made 36% of the 44 shots he took outside of 12 feet last season, he seems to have some potential as a mid-range weapon. Shooting 78% at the line and making spinning jump shots out of the post at a nice rate, Johnson's form is a bit rigid at times, but his mechanics are fairly consistent and he looked comfortable from the midrange at times when spotting up, leaving some room for optimism that he may become a threat to space the floor a bit and do some damage away from the rim. Johnson was a very effective scorer and offensive rebounder this season, but the rest of his skill set, like his jump shot, appeared to be a work in progress, as he lacks a degree of versatility. He is a decent interior passer but isn't going to provide much value as a playmaker, and though he can attack slower big men off the bounce, he often plays too quick for his own good when looking to slash the rim. He does a nice job on the offensive boards and rebounding the ball in general, but hasn't been overwhelmingly productive in that regard. Nonetheless, the soon to be 22-year old power forward has a number of tools that could help him find a niche offensively on the right team in his career. Defensively, Johnson averaged a fairly impressive 2.1 blocks and 1.5 steals per-40 minutes pace adjusted, but digging deeper, has a lot of room to grow on this end. He struggled with foul trouble on a number of notable occasions, still lacking a degree of discipline, awareness and feel inside. More than athletic enough to hold his own defensively at the college level, Johnson had some nice moments using his leaping ability rotating over to the weak side to protect the rim, but also struggled at times, notably with lapses biting on fakes on the perimeter or getting out of position in the pick and roll. Johnson doesn't always make the most of his quickness pressuring the ball away from the basket and his lack of lower body strength limited him in the post against some players as well. Looking lost, unfocused or disinterested some possessions, Johnson has to tools to be more of a consistent presence on this end, and it will be interesting to see how he progresses as a defensive player at the pro level. An emotional player who absolutely came into his own as a senior, there's a lot to like about Johnson as a prospect. Despite his experience, he still has some things to iron out and has some upside, which is saying something given that he was one of the most impactful players in all of college basketball some nights last season. Johnson figures to be in a mix to hear his name called in the first round come draft day, and is a name to keep an eye on throughout the coming months as he sits right in the middle of what has become a very intriguing power forward class. Skal Labissiere arrived in the United States in August of 2010, about six months after a catastrophic earthquake devastated his home country of Haiti. Despite having played very little organized basketball up until that point, he began to emerge as a promising prospect as a high school freshman, and received a scholarship offer from Kentucky as a sophomore. Unfortunately a stress fracture in a vertebrae in his back derailed his junior year of high school, and he was ruled ineligible to compete as a high school senior, which seemingly set back his progress significantly. Nevertheless, Labissiere had an outstanding week of practices and scrimmages at the Nike Hoop Summit in Portland in April of 2015, before impressing mightily in the actual game as well, posting 21 points, 6 rebounds and 6 blocks in 27 minutes of action in a win over Team USA. He entered the season universally projected as a top-two draft pick, but looked overmatched in the opening weeks and months of the season, both from a physical standpoint, but also mentally, as he was on an incredibly short leash from the coaching staff, and quickly lost his confidence and played timidly in the limited minutes he did see. The intrigue around Labissiere begins with his outstanding physical tools. He stands just a hair under 7-feet tall in shoes, with a 7'2 ½ wingspan and a 9-foot standing reach. His frame is very light at the moment, at just 216 pounds, and hasn't added a great deal weight in the past few years, but looks highly proportioned, with big shoulders and solid legs that should fill out significantly in time with the right strength and conditioning program. Labissiere moves about as well as you can hope a 7-footer to, being highly fluid and agile with nimble footwork, and the ability to run the floor smoothly and get off his feet quickly and effortlessly. He can make plays above the rim on both ends of the floor, but also covers ground rapidly in the half-court. That, combined with his very soft hands, makes Labissiere an excellent target for lobs, cuts and as a pick and roll finisher, as he can slither around opponents quickly and finish with purpose around the basket. While he doesn't have the strength, nor the mentality, to emerge as a prolific back to the basket option at the moment, he shows some potential as his frame fills out with his strong footwork and soft touch throwing in jump-hooks with either hand, as well as knocking down smooth turnaround jumpers over both shoulders. The place where Labissiere's impressive skill-level shows up most vividly at the moment is from the perimeter. He has outstanding shooting mechanics, with terrific balance, footwork, touch and the ability to create separation like a guard elevating off the floor and knocking down jumpers with a high release point, even off the dribble. That mostly translated to knocking down pick and pop jumpers in the mid-range area as a freshman, but he should be able to develop his picture perfect stroke into a weapon that extends out to the NBA line in time as well. The next step in Labissiere's development as an offensive player is developing his playmaking and ability to make quick decisions on the fly, something any player that operates on the perimeter needs to be able to do in today's NBA. He registered just 11 assists in 567 minutes this past season, with a 3.6% assist percentage that ranked as the third worst among prospects in our Top-100 rankings. Labissiere's lack of experience and underdeveloped feel for the game are noticeable at times, as the game often just moves too fast for him, something that contributed to his struggles in seeing playing time as a freshman. The tentativeness he developed from being afraid to get yanked from the game after the slightest mistake, didn't help matters. Defensively, Labissiere shows plenty of promise, but was very much a mixed bag in his lone year of college basketball. His ability to cover ground, the quickness in which he gets off his feet, and excellent timing made him a prolific shot-blocker using both hands already as a freshman, as his 4.2 blocks per-40 minutes was the second best rate of any prospect in our Top-100. He also shows nice potential as a pick and roll defender, as he's light on his feet, can hedge and recover effectively, and can contest shots on the perimeter nicely in switching situations using his length. On the downside, Labissiere is still very raw on this end of the floor, as he averaged more fouls per minute than any other player in our Top-100 rankings, which limited his ability to stay on the floor. Labissiere lacks both discipline and awareness, as he bites on pump-fakes way too often, and struggles to read developments off the ball, posting just nine steals in 567 minutes, which is tied for the third lowest rate in our Top-100 on a per-minute basis. While his fundamentals on offense are very strong, he has poor habits on the defensive end, playing on his heels too frequently, being hunched over in his stance, and often just being a step late to make plays rotating over from the weak side. Labissiere's lack of strength is an issue, but so is his lack of toughness. He is a little bit too nice for his own good at times, as he tends to get pushed around in the post frequently and doesn't always fight back the way you might hope, which will be an issue if he's asked to operate as a small-ball center like big men in today's NBA are increasingly asked to. He's a poor rebounder for that reason, with his 5.5 defensive boards per-40 ranking second worst among all big men projected to be drafted. He often gets caught in no-man's land trying to protect the rim, and will be a hair late with his rotation in turn, which exposes the offensive glass. He'll need to do a better job of picking and choosing his spots as a rim-protector, but also will need to improve his focus and motor, as he doesn't always look like he's operating at maximum intensity. While Labissiere is old for a freshman, even older than a handful of sophomores who are currently projected to get drafted, such as Wade Baldwin and Domantas Sabonis, his upside is regardless significant. He got a much later start on basketball than almost any player in this draft, and missed crucial development years as a high school junior and senior that put him at a major disadvantage going into college. He also didn't receive the minutes he needed early on in the season as his coach preferred to spoon-feed older players (such as Marcus Lee and Alex Poythress) rather than invest in his development, putting him on a very short leash and trying to develop him into a back to the basket player rather than taking advantage of his perimeter skill-set. Nevertheless, Labissiere's physical tools, skill-level and defensive potential are tailor-made for today's NBA, as every team in the league is currently looking for ultra-mobile big men who can run the floor, protect the paint, space the floor, and finish around the rim. Add in the fact that he has been lauded for his work ethic and character by everyone he's been around, and you have a project that an NBA team picking in the lottery is very likely to take a chance on, potentially very early on in the draft. One of a number of intriguing wings among international early entrants for the 2016 NBA Draft, Rade Zagorac put together a very strong year for Mega Leks. Breaking his arm in the middle of the fourth quarter of the first game of the season, before fighting through the pain to finish the game with 16 points and 6 rebounds against a very talented Red Star team, Zagorac didn't play again until mid-January. Taking a few games to get back into the swing of things as a number of injuries and acquisitions had the roster around him in flux, the Belgrade native finished the year averaging an impressive 13.8 points, 6 rebounds, and 2.7 assists over 28.3 minutes per game, helping a young roster that features a number of other prospects to the Adriatic League finals and the Serbian League semis. Born in Belgrade, Zagorac is one of the first of Mega Leks' many recent draft prospects to have played essentially his entire career with the club, making his Serbian League debut just after his 17th birthday during the 2012-2013 season, following a stint at the junior level. The talented swingman first emerged as a prospect with a strong showing at the Nike International Junior Tournament (now the adidas Next Generation Tournament) later that season, averaging 13 points and 5.5 rebounds per game. After a solid showing at the 2013 FIBA U18 European Championship, Zagorac spent the subsequent season on loan with Smederevo, a smaller club in Serbia that does not compete in the Adriatic League. Pouring in 15.3 points over 33.5 minutes per game in his first season playing full time in the Serbian League, Zagorac returned to Mega last season filling a prominent role alongside Nikola Jokic and Nenad Miljenovic, faring particularly well in the Adriatic League with 10.1 points, 3.2 rebounds, and 2 assists per game. Helping Serbia to an undefeated 10-0 record at the 2015 FIBA U20 European Championship last summer and solidifying himself as a prospect to watch in the process, Zagorac returned to a very different, but just as talented, Mega Leks team this season figuring to play an even more prominent role. Putting together an impressive individual campaign helping his club to its most successful season ever, Zagorac took another significant step forward in his development, putting himself in the mix, along with a half dozen other international players, to hear his name called at the end of the first round of the 2016 NBA Draft. Standing 6'9 with an above average wingspan, the 20-year-old has terrific size for a wing at any level. Possessing nice speed and fluidity and far more explosiveness than one might expect on first glance, Zagoriac is a very good athlete who can continue to improve on this front as his frame improves. On the skinny side at the moment, tipping the scales around just 205 pounds, the blossoming swingman has plenty of room to gain strength, but there's plenty to like about his physical profile. Finishing as the third leading scorer for Mega Leks behind Timothe Luwawu and Nikola Ivanovic, Zagorac took on a far more diverse offensive role this season than he had in the past. Playing mostly off the ball in the past getting more of his looks in transition or in spot up situations, a significant 38% of Zagorac's possessions this season came in isolation or pick and roll situations in 2016 according to Synergy Sports Technology. An improved ball handler and shot creator, Zagorac displayed impressive versatility this season, as a scorer and passer, even showing some ability in the post or running the point for a few brief stretches. At this stage, there really is a lot to like about what Zagorac brings to the table offensively. He does the majority of his damage as a jump shooter, with attempts split evenly between spot up jumpers and pull-ups, most of which come when he's looking to create his own shot and not just taking what the defense gives him. Knocking down a passable 35% of his set shots, Zagorac is a capable 3-point shooter and his mechanics are extremely fluid, but a bit on the loose side and tend to break down under pressure. A below average jump shooter early in his career, he's shot 37% from beyond the arc each of the last two seasons showing marked improvement, but still has some room to develop as a floor spacer. In contrast, Zagorac knocked down a terrific 45% of his pull-up jump shots this season, up from 25% a year ago, often making shots impressively off of step backs or double-moves to create separation. Zagorac's ability to create for himself is another promising aspect of his skill set that will undoubtedly intrigue NBA scouts. Pushing the ball himself in transition, attacking the basket after he gets downhill on the pick and roll with rangy strides, and showing surprising creativity with the ball going one-on-one, the talented young Serb looks very comfortable with the ball in his hands making plays not just for himself, but for others as well. He has been particularly effective in the pick and roll, where his ability to attack switches has consistently stood out this season. Though Zagorac often prefers to pull-up when he puts the ball on the floor, he does a nice job getting to the rim as well. Very smooth with the ball in his hands, Zagorac lacks elite quickness, but he's very crafty, particularly in transition, and his handle and ability to change speeds help him turn the corner in the half court. Able to play above the rim when he has space, Zagorac shot an average 56% around the rim last season in the half court, as his lack of strength and speed often allowed defenders to recover and challenge his shots inside, leading to mixed results. He'll face a steep learning curve translating his ability to create as prolifically as he has in the Adriatic and Serbian Leagues to the NBA level, but the fact that he is far from a one-dimensional prospect gives him a lot of appeal as a role player considering his physical tools. There's more to Zagorac's offensive game than just his ability to score the ball, as he's proven to be a decent passer this season, particularly out of the pick and roll. A bit turnover prone as he is still getting his bearings as a ball handler and decision-maker, telegraphs some passes, and doesn't have the tightest handle, Zagorac nonetheless proves to have solid vision and a very unselfish approach to the game. Defensively, Zagorac has much more to prove. Though he plays hard, stays engaged, shows good feet, and uses his length to get in the passing lanes, his lack of strength limits his ability to hold his ground in the post and when trying to deny penetration on the perimeter as well. He also tends to over-help and reach a bit too aggressively, although some of that can be attributed to Mega Leks's very aggressive pack-like style of defense on that end. Highly competitive, Zagorac nonetheless has a long way to go defensively and lacks a degree of lateral quickness for the next level, but already makes some plays by virtue of his effort on the glass and getting deflections. One of five prospects from Mega Leks currently listed in our top-100, teams are intimately familiar with Zagorac, even with the amount of time he missed with injury, as the club frequently drew top NBA decision-makers when they took the trip across the pond. Playing exceptionally well at times this year, the 20 year old has very interesting upside to go along with nice intangibles. His stock could rise as teams get a closer look at his in workouts as he jockeys for position in the back half of the first round or the beginning of the second. After a strong showing at the U19 World Championship last summer, helping USA win gold, Chinanu Onuaku came back to Louisville looking to establish himself as a leader with the departure of Montrezl Harrell to the NBA. Unfortunately his season ended at the conclusion of the ACC conference slate, as his school elected to self-impose a postseason ban due to accusations that a former assistant coach paid prostitutes to entertain potential recruits, putting a damper on his sophomore campaign. Nevertheless, Onuaku improved his productivity considerably, emerging as one of the most efficient all-around big men in the NCAA. He went from averaging a meager 6.6 points per-40 minutes as a freshman to a far more respectable 16.7, while increasing his 2P% to an excellent 62% and his free throw percentage from 47% to 59%. He also improved as a rebounder, upping his per-40 averages from 10.2 to 14.3, mainly thanks to an increased effort on the defensive glass, as well as blocking 3.4 shots and getting 1.3 steals per-40. Onuaku is an inch or so undersized for an NBA center at 6'9 without shoes, but compensates for that with a near 7'3 wingspan, a 9'1 standing reach, and a chiseled 245 pound frame. He is fairly mobile, doing a good job of getting up and down the floor when motivated, and has nimble feet which allow him to move in an agile fashion, despite not being the quickest or most explosive big man around on first glance. Offensively, Onuaku does all of his damage in the direct vicinity of the basket. He can use his strong frame to seal off opponents and carve out deep post position at the college level, but will need to develop his footwork and counter moves to translate some of his effectiveness as a back to the basket scorer to the pro ranks. Nevertheless, Onuaku does a great job of setting wide screens and rolling with purpose to the basket, and has outstanding hands that allow him to catch virtually everything thrown his way. He proved to be a very reliable option for his guards to throw the ball to as a pick and roll finisher and cutter, as he throws down dunks emphatically and shows some craftiness with his touch around the rim when unable to play above the rim. Onuaku converted 64% of his attempts around the basket this past season, despite the fact that he's not a high flyer and may need to continue to develop his skill level to continue to have success finishing over length. With Onuaku's role expanding, he was given more opportunities to show off his passing ability, which looked much improved as a sophomore. He sees the floor much better than you might expect for someone in his mold, as he's able to find cutters diving to the baskets and shooters spotting up on the wing, showing some creativity with his passing that suggests he can continue to develop this part of his game in time. Still, Onuaku struggles with his decision making, posting a sky-high 27% turnover percentage at the college level. He doesn't always know his limitations, and his shot-selection isn't always stellar, as it seemed towards the end of the year that he was trying to show off parts of his game that simply aren't currently in his repertoire. Onuaku can be somewhat predictable, as he doesn't have much in the way of a face-up game, struggling to put the ball on the floor or knock down a jump-shot outside the paint. His shooting mechanics are very rigid, and his career 55% free throw percentage doesn't suggest he has a great deal of room for improvement in this area. Not someone who is going to create much offensive on his own, NBA teams will likely want to see Onuaku develop some more versatility, skill and feel as his career progresses. Where Onuaku is likely to make a living early on in his career as a rebounder, an area where he shows excellent timing and can do a lot of damage with his strong frame, extremely long arms and reliable hands. His 4.9 offensive rebounds per-40 is one of the better rates in this draft, as he boxes out other big men very aggressively, and pursues loose balls coming off the glass with great purpose. Defensively, Onuaku also shows some promise. He has a knack for contesting shots around the basket as well as on the perimeter, covering ground nicely and being relatively quick off his feet. He shows good timing as a shot-blocker, as evidenced by the 3.4 rejections he averaged per-40 this season, using verticality well and not even needing to jump sometimes to send back shots thanks to his long reach. He uses his strong frame to his advantage inside the paint in man to man situations, and isn't one to get pushed around on the interior despite being only 19 years old. On the perimeter, Onuaku is somewhat of a mixed bag. On one hand, he covers ground fairly well and has quick feet he can use to stay in front of smaller players and make plays at the rim with his long arms even if he's initially beat. On the other hand, Onuaku's lack of experience can be very evident at times, as he doesn't always look dialed in enough on this end of the floor. He'll sometimes look extremely upright in his stance and show very poor discipline and intensity with his approach, one of the reasons he had a difficult time staying out of foul trouble at times this year. Onuaku came into college with a reputation for being somewhat immature, and can still be very emotional and reactive on the floor at times, while looking like he's just going through the motions in others, operating at half speed. He lacked consistency in his two years at Louisville, particularly in many of their biggest games, but did improve in this area as a sophomore, getting in better shape and playing with a more stable motor. A strong showing at the NBA Combine convinced Onuaku to keep his name in this year's draft after initially testing the waters, despite being diagnosed with a minor heart issue in his medical examination that is reportedly unlikely to affect his draft stock. Not turning 20 until November, Onuaku is significantly younger than almost any player in his class, as he easily could have been a member of the freshman class based on when he was born, being even younger than half a dozen of the one and done prospects who are expected to be drafted. He's not going to blow you away with his size, skill-level, athleticism or basketball IQ, but has some very intriguing characteristics that could help him develop into a very strong role player if he continues to progress. When Stephen Zimmerman decided to stay home and play for UNLV, it was a big get for head coach Dave Rice. Zimmerman, who was a consensus top-10 high school recruit, had a strong individual season for the Runnin' Rebels. He averaged 10.5 points, 8.7 rebounds, and 2.0 blocks per game in 26 minutes of action, even if the team struggled to an 8-10 Mountain West record, which ultimately cost Rice his job midway through the season. Zimmerman measured at exactly 7' in shoes last summer at the Nike Hoop Summit, with a 7'3” wingspan and a 9'1” standing reach, giving him excellent size for either frontcourt position. Zimmerman has a slender frame, something which currently impacts his game substantially, although he does appear to have wide shoulders that could be capable of carrying additional weight with time and physical maturation. Zimmerman spent a considerable amount of time in the post at UNLV, using over a quarter of his offensive possessions there, according to Synergy Sports Technology. Zimmerman was not ideally suited in his role as a post scorer at the collegiate level, and certainly would be in the NBA if asked to do so, at least unless he improves significantly, both in terms of his physical profile and also his skill set. Zimmerman's post offense was primarily based off of a jump hook with his dominant left hand or a turnaround jump shot, although he did flash some more advanced moves as the season went along. He shows some touch with his hook, but could get bullied physically at times down low, with a high center of gravity and poor lower body strength, and can easily have the rhythm disrupted on his post moves because of that. He also suffers from a complete lack of confidence in his right hand, which can make him predictable at times down low. Where Zimmerman shows more promise is as a pick-and-roll player, as he's capable both as a pick-and-pop and pick-and-dive offensive threat. When Zimmerman's able to attack the rim on a straight drive, he shows a level of explosiveness and fluidity that isn't as obvious when he's tasked with elevating off of two feet from a standstill down low, and he can make some impressive dunks and putbacks around the rim when he builds up a head of steam and attacks the paint. As a jump shooter, Zimmerman shows decent touch, both in the midrange off pick and pop opportunities, and on turnaround jump shots out of the post. He has a little bit of an awkward release, with the ball cocked to the left side of his head. His shot mechanics are otherwise solid, as he typically gets good rotation on the ball, and has soft touch, so it's possible he can overcome this, but it could make the repeatability of his shot more difficult down the line, especially as he looks to extend that midrange shot out to the three-point line. One other area where Zimmerman shows a lot of potential is a passer. While his 1.2 assists per 40 minutes might not jump off the stat sheet, he does a great job of keeping his head up, surveying the defense, and being aware of his options, especially when passing out of the post, where he started seeing double teams more frequently as the season went on. On the defensive side of the court is where Zimmerman is more difficult to project. While Zimmerman swatted 2.7 blocks per 40 minutes, he's not an explosive leaper from a standstill, and lacks the elite quickness in changing direction to really play out of his area and be a great team defender. His strength and physicality issues once again played a major factor in his defensive struggles, as Zimmerman gave up a lot of ground to the few legitimate post scorers he faced in the MWC. Zimmerman must improve his lower body and core strength if he wishes to compete at the next level, something that has to be a priority for the 19-year old going forward. Even beyond that, however, Zimmerman doesn't have the greatest technique as a post defender, frequently failing to engage his man until he already has deep post position, with an upright stance that allows for further damage to be done, and a questionable willingness to bang down low. Those struggles showed up at times on the defensive glass as well. While Zimmerman's individual numbers were solid – 9.3 defensive rebounds per 40 minutes, pace adjusted, and a 26.1 percent defensive rebounding rate –UNLV struggled on the defensive glass as a team. Zimmerman was inconsistent in his responsibilities boxing out, could get pushed around against more physical frontcourt players, and struggled to really rebound out of his area all that much. With his size, and hopefully some physical maturation, this is perhaps an area he can become more consistent in down the line. Zimmerman also showed some potential defending the pick-and-roll, although this was once again offset by inconsistency and long-term concerns. Zimmerman moves his feet adequately for a seven footer, but he could be overly aggressive at times jumping out on the ball handler, and doesn't have the elite recovery speed to make that work on a consistent basis. This is a problem that will only get worse at the NBA level when he's tasked with slowing down the elite ball handlers seen in the NBA, although as the NBA tends to shift its strategy to the big man sagging off the ball handler in an effort to minimize team rotations, limit open corner threes, and force opponents into long two-point jump shots, it's a strategy that could help Zimmerman mitigate some of his deficiencies in this regard. Stephen Zimmerman has a number of skill sets – mobility, shooting touch, pick-and-roll potential – that are extremely sought after in the NBA, packaged with a 7' frame, solid length, and a body type that looks like it could add bulk down the line. But every positive that Zimmerman currently has is qualified with some form of concern, whether that's the need to prove he can extend his range and become more consistent in his jump shot, struggles competing physically in the paint, and concerns about his perimeter defense. Zimmerman is stuck a little bit between positions, without the kind of rim protection decision-makers want anchoring their defense, and struggling to defend the pick and roll game in what is becoming an increasingly perimeter-oriented league. With many areas of legitimate potential, but also plenty of areas to improve, Zimmerman is the kind of guy who could have a wide variance in where he could go come draft night. If he can continue to make progress in his jump shot, get stronger, and convince general managers that he can overcome some of his flaws, he certainly has the potential to hear his name called in the first round by Adam Silver on draft night, possibly even from the comforts of the Green Room. Diamond Stone entered Maryland as one of the school's most highly touted recruits in recent history, ranked sixth by the RSCI. He had an up and down season as many freshman do, but was still named to the Big Ten's All-Conference Third Team as well as their All-Freshman Team. He averaged 22.8 points and 10.2 rebounds per 40 minutes pace adjusted as one of the youngest NBA prospects in college basketball, with Stone not turning 19 until February of this year. Stone doesn't have elite height for a center, measuring just 6'9 barefoot at the NBA Combine, but more than compensates for that with a gigantic 7'3” wingspan and a strong 254 pound frame. He's not an exceptional athlete, but can certainly hold his own against other similarly built centers, especially considering how strong he is, as he has a wide frame, and is very nimble and mobile for a player with his build. Primarily a back to the basket option offensively, with over 35% of his possessions ending in post-ups according to Synergy Sports Technology, Stone has grown up operating on the block, but will have to demonstrate how he fits into a modern NBA offense. He likes to hold the ball and work methodically with his back to the basket, using his strength to seal off opponents or back them down underneath the rim. He has a nice array of post moves, displaying excellent footwork on his drop steps and spin moves to beat his man when he couldn't seal them or back them down for an easy basket. He relies more on his touch and footwork around the rim to score rather than an elite level of explosiveness, but has impressive body control and a really advanced feel for operating in the low post. Still lacking a degree of experience as many 18-year old freshmen do, Stone often struggled to assert his will on the similarly sized big men he matched up, especially those who were also on NBA radars. When he couldn't physically overpower his man or use his reach to shoot over them, he looked less confident in his footwork and struggled to score. Until he can prove he can consistently be a reliable option in the half-court, NBA teams may be reluctant to dump the ball into him on a regular basis early in his career, so he may have to find other ways to score initially. Accustomed to holding the ball excessively up until this point in his career, Stone can be a bit of a black hole at times, with a one track mind toward a shot as soon as he received an entry pass, which hurt his team's overall offensive efficiency. His 0.7 assists per 40 minutes pace adjusted and his 0.27 assist to turnover ratio both ranked third worst among all prospects in our top 100, while his 4.1% assist percentage ranked fifth. There are questions about both his willingness to pass and his feel for the game as he failed to see open teammates when the defense doubled him. He certainly had talented teammates around him that he could kick out to, but he failed to deliver the ball which often made his teammates visibly frustrated. He has to become a more willing passer at the NBA level with the far more complex team defensive schemes we're seeing, especially since he's unlikely to emerge as a primary option early in his career. Stone didn't take a ton of jump shots during his time at Maryland, but he did display some touch and accuracy in a small sample. These shots came in the form of face-up jumpers from eight to ten feet or mid-range jumpers from the foul line. An ability to stretch out the midrange and possibly even the three point line will help him contribute offensively when he can't score in the post. This may not come right away but could develop over time as he matures as a professional player, and would go a long way in helping him finding a long-lasting niche. Stone was an average defensive rebounder in his lone collegiate season with his 6.1 rebounds per 40 minutes pace adjusted ranking last among centers in our top 100. He wasn't that physical of a rebounder and didn't attack the defensive glass to pull down the loose ball. It's possible that playing in a two big lineup stunted his numbers, but he will have to be more competitive and show more of a passion for rebounding as a center in the NBA, especially since he's unlikely to be an offensive focal point early on in his career. As an individual defender, Stone showed some potential when challenged directly, but his overall effort level and instincts left much to be desired. When guarding a post player, he has the strength and reach to defend a close range shot, but too often plays with a lack of toughness and physicality by getting pushed under the rim or allowing his man to freely get to his spots on the floor. While he can make some plays when directly guarding the ball, off the ball he is a major liability, as he lacks the focus and awareness to be a consistent team defender by moving his feet to help out his teammates. Stone's length and solid instincts allowed him to emerge as a solid shot-blocker as a freshman in on-ball situations, blocking 2.9 shots per-40 minutes, but he still has a ways to go to improve his help-side defense and overall become an effective paint and rim-protector. He struggles to hedge or switch screens out on the perimeter, lacking the sense of urgency needed to compensate for his average lateral quickness and explosiveness. Stone will have to improve his defensive instincts and effort to work his way into a NBA rotation early on, which will require becoming highly attentive at picking up schemes, and much more fundamentally sound than he needed to be up until this point in his career. There's certainly a role for Stone in the NBA, as players of his size with advanced scoring instincts certainly don't grow on trees, and this may be enough to warrant a team selecting him in the first round. However, he will need to polish and diversify his offensive skill set, while becoming a much more consistent defensive and rebounding presence, to break through at the next level. He is the fifth youngest player in our top-100, and while he is very much a work in progress, he will be given ample opportunity to improve and grow as a pro prospect. Much will depend on how hard Stone is willing to work and how coachable he proves to be, as he certainly has the talent to be an effective NBA player, even if the style of play we're seeing among teams in modern basketball doesn't favor him at the moment.