Buddy Hield captivated the college basketball nation with a spectacular senior season the culminated in the NCAA Tournament Final Four. Hield improved in virtually every facet of the game between his junior and seniors seasons, going from a fringe NBA Draft pick to a likely lottery pick in the process. At 28 points per-40, with a 67% TS%, only Doug McDermott can boast having as prolific and efficient season as Hield has in the last 20 years of college basketball. Hield's perimeter shooting is as good of a place as any to start the conversation about his offensive game. His 147 3-pointers made (in 37 games) was by far the highest mark among all college players this year, and is tied for the highest total mark any college basketball player has achieved since Steph Curry made 162 back in 2008. What's impressive about Hield's 3-point shooting isn't just the huge volume of makes this season, it's also the incredible accuracy, at 46%. He's deadly in transition, is always moving to relocate into a better look after giving it up, and has a super quick trigger that allows him to get his shot off in the blink of an eye. Hield knocks down shots from NBA range on a regular basis, often with a hand in his face while well-guarded by defenses that are geared to slowing him down. Hield has always been a tremendous shooter (career 39% 3P%), but he was much more of a catch and shoot guy for the first few years of his college career. Although he's absolutely elite with his feet set still (68/139, 49%), he's also turned himself into a much improved off the dribble shooter as well (51/137, 37%), which makes him very difficult to stop considering many of these attempts come from beyond the 3-point line (0.98 PPP). Although he doesn't have great size, or the highest release point (he's largely a flat-footed shooter), he utilizes impressive footwork, hesitation moves and fadeaways to help him get his shot off in difficult situations, especially in big moments with the shot-clock running down. His ball-handling skills in general improved as his college career moved on, as evidenced by his career high 55% 2P% this past season. He's able to attack his defender off closeouts with nice footwork and timing, and will mix in some change of speeds, spin moves and side-steps out of pick and rolls and isolations. He drives left almost exclusively, but has started to show some ability to use it to finish inside the paint as well, where he shot 56% this season. There are some question marks about what type of creator he will be at an NBA level, though, as he at times struggles to turn the corner already against quicker collegiate guards, and can't always create much breathing room against bigger and lengthy wings. He can be a little bit predictable when putting the ball on the floor, as he almost always pulls up off the dribble or tries to execute a step back when driving left, and will try to get all the way to the rim when going right (which is rare). Not blessed with an elite first step, he can still stand to continue to improve his advanced ball-handling skills to create space in the half-court. In traffic, as he doesn't always have the size or explosiveness to finish effectively against rim-protectors, and thus relies very heavily on his shot-making prowess from the perimeter. Hield also doesn't offer much as a passer or facilitator, sporting the second lowest pure point rating and assist to turnover ratio among the shooting guards in our Top-100 prospect rankings. He'll pull off the occasionally drive and dish play, but for the most part he's looking for his own offense whenever he's on the floor, and does not possess an exceptionally high basketball IQ. The other pressing question surrounding Hield is his defense. While that was considered a clear weakness in the past, he's improved his effort level and fundamentals, and eliminated enough of the bad habits he had in this area that it's not as big a weakness as it may have been in the past. Still, he is undoubtedly undersized for a shooting guard at 6'4 ½ in shoes, which limits his versatility at the NBA level. While he played mostly the small forward position in college, his lack of size will make it difficult for him to cover many of the bigger wings he'll encounter, and he does not appear to possess great lateral quickness to stay in front of ultra-athletic guards. With that said, he has a reasonably strong frame, to go along with a long wingspan (measured at 6'8 ½) for a shooting guard, so even if he's strictly a one-position defender, there's no reason he can't at least be adequate there as he figures out that he absolutely has to in order to survive. With that in mind, Hield's overall intangibles make him the type of player who is difficult to write off, and to some degree, root for. He's one of the best “rags to riches” stories you'll find in the past few years, and is universally lauded for his work ethic, competitiveness and character. It's tough to envision a player who was as productive as he was at the college level not translating his effectiveness to the NBA, at least in some capacity. In that regard, there is a certain comfort level knowing what you're getting, which is, at worst, a tremendous shooter/scorer who plays extremely hard and will do everything in his power to be successful. One of the breakout NBA prospects of last season, Jakob Poeltl emerged from relative obscurity to average 9.2 points and 6.8 rebounds over 23.3 minutes per game as a true freshman while helping Utah to a Sweet Sixteen appearance. Opting to return to school to improve his already lofty draft stock, Poeltl took a calculated risk, which appears likely to pay dividends. Adding to his resume in impressive fashion after a summer playing in exhibition games for the Austrian National Team against the talented rosters fielded by the likes of Germany, Italy, and Lithuania, Poeltl emerged as one of the most productive big men in the country, winning Pac-12 Player of the Year honors along with both the Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Pete Newell Big Man awards, averaging 17.3 points and 9.1 rebounds over 30.5 minutes per game. Solidifying himself as a potential top-10 pick, Poeltl figures to be one of the first centers off the board come draft day thanks to the marked improvement he showed this season. Poeltl's upcoming selection in the draft will be a historic one for a number of reasons. He appears in good position to become Utah's first top-10 selection since Andrew Bogut, who was selected by the Bucks with the 1st overall selection in 2005 over a decade age. Born in Vienna, Poeltl will also become the first Austrian player to sign with an NBA team, let alone appear in a regular season game or get drafted. Emerging seemingly out of the blue as a 17 year old to average 15.3 points and 12.8 rebounds per game at the 2012 FIBA U18 Division B European Championship, Poeltl has taken one of the more unique paths to the draft of any international player in recently memory. Posting similar numbers at the 2013 edition of the same championship, Poeltl's recruitment, both from college programs and clubs in Europe, picked up dramatically as the basketball world began to take notice of his combination of size and skill. Opting to play the remainder of his pre-NCAA career in his native country, Poeltl was wrapping up his season in the Austrian 2nd Division, in relative anonymity from an NBA perspective, just three years ago. Averaging an impressive 12.7 points and 7.7 rebounds per game a year later for the Arkadia Traiskirchen Lions in the Austrian 1st Division, a league whose outcome is frequently decided by former mid-major standouts, while his fellow classmates were wrapping up their senior years of high school, Poeltl signed with Utah in 2014 to little fanfare joining a strong class that included highly regarded forwards Brekkott Chapman and Kyle Kuzma. Despite his unorthodox path to the NCAA from a country that has produced few Division I players, and being a relative unknown on the international scene, Poeltl quickly emerged as an interior presence for one of the nation's best defensive teams as a true freshman, commanding the attention of NBA decision-makers averaging almost a double-double in his first month in the college game. His improvement over that last three seasons and rise to prominence has been remarkable. Poeltl's intrigue at the NBA level starts with his impressive combination of size and athleticism. Measured at 7'1 in shoes with just a 7'1 wingspan and a 242-pound frame, Poeltl doesn't have great length relative to his height and will need to continue to add weight to his frame, particularly his lower body. Nevertheless, he's a fluid athlete with better mobility than most players his size. He lacks a degree of explosiveness off two feet, but in general, has a very promising combination of physical tools for a center prospect. The talented big man made excellent use of those tools in a significant offensive role this season, as he finished the year among only a half dozen players in high major conferences scoring over 1.1 points per possession on 14 or more possessions per game. Pouring in a spectacular 1.15 points per possession over 14.8 possessions per game, up from a very efficient 1.03 over 8.9 per game as a freshman, Poeltl showed marked improvement on the offensive end, ranking among the most prolific and efficient scorers in the Pac-12 as Larry Krystowiak made Poeltl a priority in Utah's offense. Doing the majority of his scoring one-on-one on the block, the talented Austrian big man's size, footwork, and efficient approach allowed him to make a consistent impact in the scoring column, including a handful of strong performances against quality competition. Finishing the year ranked fifteenth in the country in post-up scoring, and third in efficiency, while shooting 59% going one-on-one on the block according to Synergy Sports Technology, Poeltl combines solid footwork with simple, but effective moves inside. Able to score on hook shots using both hands with nice touch and mixing in an occasional up and under, Poeltl's post repertoire isn't particularly advanced and he clearly prefers to operate over his left shoulder. He showed marked improvement as a passer from the block as his turnover rate plummeted while he ranked among the most productive passers from the block in the country, particularly when faced with a double team, as he showed far better vision and patience than he did as a freshman. At this stage, Poeltl doesn't project to be a dominant interior scorer at the next level, especially with the way the NBA game is trending. He does, however, figure to be a threat to score with his back to the basket at the next level in spots, and his improved feel for moving the ball could make the team that drafts him more comfortable getting him touches in their offense early on. Poeltl's role at the next level early on will likely revolve heavily around his ability to finish the shots created for him. Shooting a sensational 69% finishing around the basket in the half court, he proved very effective converting cuts and put backs, but especially rolls to the rim and transition opportunities throughout the year, as his size and consistent energy shined at times. He plays above the rim when he can build a head of steam, shields the ball with his body fairly effectively, pivots to daylight well, and even flashes the ability to use his dribble to attack the rim driving either direction when he catches in the midrange area with room to operate. Not overly bouncy in traffic, the 20 year old center occasionally struggled at times to finish over long, physical defenders last season as he plays a bit high and, though he has excellent touch, doesn't finish quite as emphatically or as explosively as one might hope off of two feet. It will be interesting to see what kind of strides Poeltl can make in a NBA strength and conditioning program as any improvements he makes athletically or in terms of strength could pay significant dividends. Attempting only a half dozen shots from any significant distance away the rim over the last two years, Poeltl is not a particularly dangerous weapon outside the paint at this stage. He shows the ability to make sound decisions with the ball on short rolls to the rim and reads in hand off situations, but he isn't a very versatile offensive player. He made massive strides as a free throw shooter this season, upping his percentage from a dismal 43% to a very serviceable 69% as a sophomore, and made a few jump shots in national team play last summer, but it remains to be seen if Poeltl's skill level away from the rim will evolve into an asset for him down the road. A highly efficient offensive player who did plenty of scoring when plays were not called for him over the last two years, there's an obvious role for Poeltl at the next level. The question is whether his trajectory over those two seasons continues and he becomes a more dynamic player on the offensive end early in his NBA career, and whether his effectiveness as a finisher translates as smoothly as the team selecting him will surely hope. He was terrific at times last season putting up big scoring numbers with outstanding efficiency, but was also quite quiet some nights as well, notably in Utah's NCAA Tournament loss to Gonzaga where he looked gassed as the physical, aggressive, but smaller Domantas Sabonis got the better of him, recording 19 points and 10 rebounds to Poeltl's 5 points and 4 boards. Outside of his ability to score the ball, Poeltl does a solid, but not spectacular job of crashing the boards. His instincts and motor are solid, but he lacks the tremendous length and athleticism common among the game's top rebounders. Averaging 12.1 rebounds per-40 minutes pace adjusted, Poeltl ranks 12th among players in our top-100. Defensively, the 7'1 center provides some rim protection, but his lack of length and elite explosiveness limits him in that regard as well as he ranks just 15th in blocks per-40 minutes pace adjusted among that same group. Despite his shortcomings in that aspect of the game, there's otherwise a lot to like about Poeltl defensively. He's competitive and moves his feet well, which shined at times when he was switched onto smaller players in the pick and roll. He lacks a degree of strength and toughness on the block, but stays in good position and is quite a bit more disciplined not leaving his feet and avoiding foul trouble than many college big men. Though Poeltl may not grow into the type of player that carries a team defensively, he could certainly hold his own assuming his frame improves, without taking a toll on his foot speed. A likely top-10 pick, Poeltl is a player a number of college programs elected to pass on just a few years ago. His improbable, rapid ascension through the NCAA ranks has been fascinating to watch, as few prospects in recent memory, particularly at the college level, have followed such an unusual path to the NBA. It is truly rare, at this point in history, for a player of any background to appear on the NBA radar as unexpectedly as Poeltl did. Though he lacks a degree of long-term upside, his relative youth and development in recent years fuel hopes that he could emerge as a valuable, role-playing center who can make contributions on both ends of the floor. From a cultural perspective, Poeltl's significance to the game of basketball in his native Austria, a nation whose population is similar to that of New York City, can't be understated. His success in the NBA could go a long way towards changing the hoops landscape in the landlocked central European nation. For the second straight season, Michigan's Caris LeVert had his season cut short by an injury. Last year, a broken left foot caused him to miss the final 14 games of his junior season, the same foot he had already had surgery on due to a stress fracture. Now as a senior, LeVert was diagnosed with a lower left leg injury (which Michigan claims is ”unrelated” to his previous foot problems) that saw him play just 19 of his team's final 20 games, bringing his total games played in the past two seasons to 31, just 45% of possible games. Although Michigan has been mysteriously secretive about what part of LeVert's left leg caused him to miss the final two months of the season, it's difficult not to connect the injury to his previous foot problems. LeVert, while once looking close to returning to action, ultimately decided to sit out the end of his senior season to mitigate the risk of any further injury. Somewhat encouragingly, he is openly discussing doing physical activity with NBA teams in coming months. Now he turns to the pre-draft process, including workouts and physicals, which will be crucial for him after missing so many games the past two seasons. Scouts and their organizations will have an adequate sample of games to evaluate him on, but will want up to date information and their medical staff's input after this latest injury. LeVert's height, measured at 6'7”, is his best physical asset and one of the main reasons NBA teams are excited about him. He has the potential to play anywhere from the point guard spot to the small forward position, but looks to fit best as a combo guard at the next level. His size allows him to shoot or pass over smaller defenders as he can easily see the floor. The rest of his physical profile doesn't have any single overly impressive feature, but his overall package puts him on par with many NBA guards. He has a thin frame, and as a senior, it's difficult to see him adding too much more bulk to his frame, which leaves him vulnerable to be overpowered by bigger players, particularly defensively. He is a very fluid and mobile athlete when healthy, both getting up and down the floor and moving laterally, but he doesn't possess elite explosiveness, particularly finishing in traffic. Although he is a senior, he is young for his class as he is the youngest senior in our top-100 rankings, and younger than a handful of juniors in our top 100. Offensively, LeVert is a jack of all trades. It starts with his jumper, and he has developed into an excellent outside shooter over the past three years. He knocked down 40% of his three point attempts in his college career, and has a fluid stroke that shows he should be able to translate his performance to the NBA line. He converted 47.1% of his 34 total catch and shoot opportunities in his senior season according to Synergy Sports Technology. Working off the dribble, he shows flashes of potential that could translate to the NBA but has never been able to develop this part of his game with any consistency. Lacking strength, aggressiveness and a consistent pull-up jumper, LeVert has never looked comfortable as a go-to guy creator that a team can rely upon in the half-court with the shot clock winding down. He can attack closeouts off the bounce and he has a nice first step that allows him to get by his defender into space, but has struggled to make shots off the dribble throughout his college career, converting just 62 of his 222 attempts (28%) over the past four years according to Synergy Sports Technology, a far cry from his blistering ability as a catch and shoot threat. This will be key for his development, as he isn't always strong or explosive enough to get into the paint, and will need to be able to make pull-ups if he's handling the ball in a combo guard role at the NBA level. LeVert's quick first step does allow him to straight line drive to the rim when he has a clear path, but he isn't able to maneuver through a crowded lane off the dribble. He has a tendency to avoid contact around the rim, stopping short of the rim protectors to shoot a contested floater or attempting to avoid the defense altogether, which causes him to put up an off-balance shot attempt. Combining this with his inability to consistently shoot pull-up jumpers and he may struggle to create offense for himself at the next level, delegating him to more of a spot-up and secondary facilitator type role. Where LeVert shows the potential to do more than just that is with passing ability. His 6.6 assists per 40 minutes pace adjusted ranked eighth among prospects in our top-100 rankings. He takes care of the ball, turning it over only 2.1 times per 40 minutes pace adjusted. He has shown nice vision to find his teammates off penetration and displayed good decision making to make the right decision to pass or shoot. Although he may not always be able to create good looks for himself, he should be able to find teammates if he can draw the help defense on his drives to boost his team's offense. With his physical tools, it's difficult to project LeVert as a staunch defender at the next level. His height and wingspan could allow him to guard bigger guards, but his thin frame can get overpowered on drives or inside the paint. He may be able to bother smaller point guards but he isn't the quickest player laterally, which hurts his ability to stay in front of penetration at times. He'll need to work on staying in a fundamental stance defensively to maximize his chances of defending the perimeter. He does put in a high level of effort on this side of the ball and looks committed to making an impact. While unlikely to emerge as a lockdown type in the short term, his coaching staff will know he will compete and continuously look to get better, particularly as his frame improves. The medical examinations that NBA teams will perform on LeVert will be the most important part of his pre-draft process. Depending on how each team feels about the status of his foot, this could significantly raise or lower his draft stock. Teams will be especially cautious with his injury history, as a serious foot injury can significantly slow a player's career, as we have seen numerous times in the past. When he has been on the floor, LeVert has proven he is a versatile passer and spot-up shooter with the potential to play multiple positions, which is very much in demand in today's NBA. If he can find a way to stay healthy in the long term, LeVert could certainly emerge as a key role player for a NBA team with all that he is able to offer. The 43rd ranked high school recruit in his class, Dejounte Murray exceeded expectations as a freshman, emerging as a second team All-Pac 12 Conference player after averaging 16 points, 6 rebounds and 4.5 assists per game. Washington did not have a great season overall, finishing 19-15 and 9-9 in conference play, with one of the youngest rosters in college basketball. Murray took advantage of the opportunities he was presented with playing a major role for the fastest paced team in major-conference college basketball, and surprised somewhat by electing to enter the draft and hire an agent already in March, without testing the waters or even waiting on an evaluation from the NBA Draft underclassmen advisory committee. Murray has good size for either guard position, measuring 6'5 in shoes with a 6'9 ½ wingspan. He has a thin frame, currently only listed at 170 pounds, but has fairly wide shoulders that indicate he should be able to fill out and get stronger in time. While not freakishly athletic in a traditional sense, Murray is a very fluid and slithery player, capable of playing above the rim in space, and knowing how to get to where he needs to on the floor thanks to his excellent instincts and pace. Seeing a huge portion of his possessions in the open court, Murray is at his best pushing the ball in transition or in the early offense, where he shows a few different gears he can utilize to attack defenses. Although he's not particularly strong, Murray is an incredibly aggressive player, always looking for ways to get inside the paint and get a shot off, not being afraid of contact in the least bit. He shows some interesting ball-handling moves, with big swooping crossovers and fancy change of speed moves, mixing in terrific body control with instinctive footwork that allows him to execute some highly advanced scoring combos at times. Lacking a degree of strength and explosiveness as a finisher around the basket, Murray is highly dependent on his floater to bail him out when he can't draw contact and get to the free throw line. He shows impressive touch and range on it, and made more floaters than any other draft prospect in the country this season according to Synergy Sports Technology, converting them at a decent 45% rate. There's a reason why more prospects don't take (or make) that many of those shots, though, as it's a very difficult way to make a living. Murray really struggles finishing in traffic otherwise, even in the open court, which is one of the reasons he shot just 46% from 2-point range. While primary hunting for his own shot at all times seemingly, Murray will occasionally display some vision and creativity finding teammates for open looks, primarily off the dribble. He's turnover prone, often just passing as a last resort after exhausting all other options, and trying to get way too flashy at times, but does demonstrate some potential at times with his ability to hit the roll man, throw impressive lob passes, or whip the ball around in transition. As he gets older and the game slows down for him, he may be able to develop his point guard skills even further and learn how to run a team with a steadier hand. Murray's biggest weakness offensively, besides his poor decision making skills, revolves around his very inconsistent jump-shot. He hit just 29% of his 3-pointers on the season, showing poor footwork and a lot of wasted motion in his release, having a difficult time in particular making shots off the dribble (15/59, 25%). This didn't prevent Murray from heaving up more than four jumpers per game, as defenses would often just sag off him completely, knowing they could bait him into settling for bad shots. The fact that he was able to make over one 3-pointer a game is a reflection of his instincts as a scorer and natural touch, which leaves some hope he can continue to develop this part of his game in time with better shot-selection and improved technique. Defensively, Murray's long arms and excellent instincts give him some potential to grow into, but he was largely ineffective on this end of the floor as a freshman. He doesn't put much effort into this part of his game at this stage of his career, as he has poor fundamentals and isn't particularly attentive either. His lack of strength made it easy for players to bulldoze their way straight through him, he rarely gives a second effort after getting beat, and often looks very upright just standing straight up off the ball. With that said, Murray shows quick hands and reaction time sniffing out passes and getting in the passing lanes (1.9 steals per-40 pace adjusted) and was one of the better rebounding guards in our Top-100 (6.3 per-40, 6th), which leaves some room for optimism that he can improve this part of his game over the next few years with better coaching and effort. While some NBA teams likely would have preferred to see Murray return to school and gain more experience at the college level in what would have been a very talented Washington team next season, his family situation reportedly played a heavy role in him electing to declare early. Murray's size, length, creativity, scoring instincts, aggressive mentality and youth give him a nice framework to build off as a prospect, even if he's likely years away from helping a NBA team. A team looking to swing for the fences in the 20-40 range could very well elect to pick him and hope they can develop into a better player than you typically expect to find in that part of the draft, thanks to his talent-level. They'll have to be very patient, though. Coming off an ultra-productive four-year career at Virginia, Malcolm Brogdon played an impressive, efficient game, scoring 17 points on only eight shots, while contributing in a handful of different areas. The 23-year-old two-guard looked like the best pure basketball player among all four 5-on-5 teams as he was able to distribute as the primary ball handler, knock down open shots, and finish over length and through contact all while locking up on the defensive end. There's not a ton of flash to Brogdon's game – he's not an explosive athlete and he doesn't have the most beautiful shooting stroke – but he's been a winner at every level (his team won by 40 points on Thursday) and most certainly stood out as the most NBA-ready player to play 5-on-5. At 6' 5.5” with a 6' 10.5” wingspan and a strong 223-pound frame, Brogdon found some success playing on the ball on Thursday, especially out of ball screens. He doesn't exactly turn the corner in isolation situations, but he showed that he's a sound ball handler versus pressure and has the IQ to facilitate against a variety of pick and roll coverages. Brogdon may not be loaded with upside but he has a winning mentality, is a tremendous defender, can make standstill jumpers and knows how to make up for some of his athletic limitations as a half-court scorer. He's a safe pick for a team in the late first or early second round, and could very well rise with more strong performances during the pre-draft process. Malik Beasley wasn't a 2015 McDonald's All-American and wasn't chosen to the Nike Hoop Summit USA Team. He never played in any FIBA National Team tournaments and ended his senior year ranked as the 36th best high school player in the country by the Recruiting Services Consensus Index. Now 23 games into his freshman season at Florida State, Beasley has steadily become one of the most productive and efficient freshmen in all of college basketball. Among RSCI 2015 Top 100 recruits, Beasley is third in points per game behind likely No. 1 pick Ben Simmons and potential lottery pick Jamal Murray. Beasley is scoring at an extremely efficient clip, and doing so in the storied Atlantic Coast Conference. He scored 23 points (16 shots) against Louisville, the second-best defense in the country according to KenPom.com. He scored 17 points (10 shots) on defensive juggernaut Virginia, and 20 points (17 shots) on Iowa, the 11th-best defensive team in the country, efficiency-wise. Beasley has scored 20 points or more nine times this season and has scored in double figures in all of his collegiate games. Needless to say, Beasley has been consistent, efficient, and productive, and NBA scouts are certainly starting to take notice of the freshman from Alpharetta, GA. Efficient Production Beasley is scoring at a historically efficient rate uncommon among players his age in the ACC (stats from the DraftExpress Database): • Since 1992, only two ACC guards have averaged more than 17 points per game while posting a true shooting percentage over 60 percent: Kyrie Irving (11 games played) and Malik Beasley. • Since 2000, only nine ACC guards under the age of 20 have averaged more 17 points per game. Of those nine, only three shot over 50 percent from 2-point range and 40 percent from 3-point range: Irving, Beasley and Rashad McCants. • Beasley is the only freshman guard in the country scoring more than 20 points per 40 minutes while shooting over 55 percent from 2-point range and 40 percent from 3-point range. Strengths Standing 6-foot-5 with a 6-foot-7 wingspan, Beasley doesn't quite have elite physical tools for an NBA shooting guard but he's an impressive athlete, excellent shooter and aggressive slasher who brings an energetic approach to the floor. Beasley does a lot of damage in the open court – 26.9 percent of his offense, according to Synergy Sports – by using his speed to sprint to the rim and his explosiveness to catch lobs or hammer home tomahawk dunks. Although not the most polished ball handler, Beasley is more than capable of grabbing a rebound and getting to the front of the rim himself. Florida State plays at the 30th-fastest pace in the NCAA, according to KenPom.com, and Beasley's athleticism is a big reason why. In the half court, Beasley plays a simple and efficient game, one that's predicated on catch-and-shoot jumpers, one- or two-dribble pull-ups, straight-line drives and movement without the basketball. Beasley has the eighth-best true shooting percentage among 38 guards in the DraftExpress Top 100, a result of not only his shooting stroke and finishing ability, but also his focus on playing within himself. As a shooter Beasley is very sound mechanically, showing outstanding shot preparation before the catch, tremendous balance, quick elevation as he goes into his motion, and a clean wrist action at the top of his jump that produces a healthy amount of back spin. Beasley can shoot off the hop or after planting one foot after another, an important skill for shooting on the move and under duress. With defenders having to respect Beasley's catch-and-shoot jumper, which yields 1.175 points per possession, he's able to use his athleticism to attack scrambling defenders to get into a mid-range pull-up, floater or finish at the rim. Beasley displays the same impressive mechanics on his pull-up that he does on his catch-and-shoot jumper, which should help him become more of a versatile scorer as his ball-handling improves. The final part of Beasley's scoring arsenal comes in the paint, where he employs his explosiveness and aggressive nature to finish at the hoop or get to the line. Beasley also shows flashes of a floater that he's able to mix in when a help-side defender is loading up to take a charge or the rim protector is in perfect position. Although he's not much of a shot creator at this stage, Beasley's ability to score efficiently is certainly a coveted skill in today's NBA. Beasley also plays with a motor you don't always see out of 19-year-old freshman with his skill level and athleticism. He's a very good rebounder for his position – 7.1 per 40 minutes with pace adjusted, ranking fifth among DraftExpress' Top 100 guards – and flies around on the defensive end. He moves without the ball offensively and plays an unselfish brand of basketball. Beasley's overall intangibles are most certainly a positive. Watching him warm up an hour before the game you can see his personality when he's on the floor. The son of actor Michael Beasley and actress Deena Beasley, Malik is very engaged with teammates, yet locked in when it's time to get shots up. Beasley comes from an excellent family, really competes and his development curve speaks to his work ethic. Overall, there's certainly a lot to like about Beasley as an NBA two-guard prospect. Needs Improvement Beasley checks a lot of boxes as a prospect, but the 19-year-old needs to get better as a shot creator, playmaker and defender. Possessing average physical tools for an NBA two-guard, scouts will want to see Beasley make plays off the dribble as a scorer and distributor. Beasley won't be able to rely on his size to score in the half court at the next level, making his development as shot creator that much more important. As it stands now, Beasley is a rudimentary ball handler who struggles to go get a bucket when his first move is taken away. Although partially due to FSU perimeter players Xavier Rathan-Mayes and Dwayne Bacon dominating the ball, the fact that isolations make up only 1.4 percent of Beasley's offense shows where he stands as one-on-one scorer. He's limited to mostly straight-line drives and doesn't change speeds or directions all that comfortably, scoring just 0.6 points per possession out of pick-and-rolls. Finding ways to create space off the dribble with his handle, quickness and footwork like physically similar NBA guards Bradley Beal and Kentavious Caldwell-Pope will go a long way in determining how effective Beasley will score at the NBA level. Improving as a distributor would also open up the floor for Beasley and allow him to operate as a secondary ball handler in pick-and-rolls, something most NBA teams ask out of their two-guards. Beasley has a solid feel for the game, but he's not all that comfortable keeping his dribble alive against pressure or delivering the ball on the move. Beasley turns over the ball on 28.6 percent of pick-and-roll possessions. Given his natural feel and efficient style of play, Beasley should be able to improve in this area as he gains more experience and confidence as a ball handler. While Beasley is fairly under control on the offensive end, he's reckless and takes chances defensively. Too often he puts his teammates at a disadvantage by trying to jump the passing lanes to get steals or swipe at the ball when he's the primary defender. Beasley also has a couple of technical issues to clean up as an on-ball defender, but the fact that he plays with such energy is a positive moving forward. Beasley has done a fairly nice job of getting stronger over the last couple of years, but he still doesn't possess a massive frame, much length or elite size, and figures to have some struggles defending bigger NBA shooting guards. Beasley defends point guards quite a bit for Florida State. If he is able to find a way to defend NBA lead guards effectively, it will make him a much easier fit defensively. Projection Having flown slightly under the radar, Beasley has now played his way onto NBA draft boards, ranking 30th in the DraftExpress Top 100 and is projected to be selected 18th overall in the 2017 DraftExpress Mock Draft. Despite his production, Beasley certainly isn't ready to step into the NBA right now as a rotation player, and there are definitely several things he can improve upon with added experience at the collegiate level. But if Beasley were to test the waters this year, he would absolutely garner quite a bit of interest based on his production and would look good in workouts with his athleticism and shooting stroke. Beasley may be a year away, but he's without a doubt helped improve his stock through the first 23 games of his freshman campaign. One of a number of intriguing international early entrants for the 2016 NBA Draft, Ivica Zubac is one of the less established prospects among that group, growing his standing in the eyes of NBA decision-makers almost entirely in the last ten months. Born in Bosnia, but a naturalized Croatian like many from the Mostar area of southern Herzegovina, Zubac had spent the majority of his career playing for Cibona and its junior teams coming into the 2014-2015, season outside of a loan to a second division a few years ago when he was just 16. Hampered by a foot injury in 2014 that prevented him from seeing minutes and getting his stock off the ground, Zubac emerged from relative obscurity to average 4.5 points and 2.9 rebounds per game in the Adriatic and Croatian Leagues for Cibona a year ago, but it wasn't until the 2015 FIBA U19 World Championship that he established himself as a real prospect for the NBA. Coming into last summer with limited international experience under his belt, having only played a bit part at the 2013 FIBA U16 European Championship, and missing the summer of 2014 entirely, Zubac averaged a sensational 17.6 points and 7.9 rebounds over 26.5 minutes per game for Croatia's U19 squad in Greece to finish second among all players in PER and help his team to a silver medal. The young 7'1 center followed that up averaging 15.8 points and 12.9 rebounds per game at the U18 European Championships only a few weeks later, emerging as one of the most promising draft eligible big men outside of the United States. Returning to Cibona to start the year, but missing all of October and most of November due to a meniscus injury, Zubac's stay with the historic club lasted only a month and change after he got healthy, as financial issues led him to terminate his contract and explore other options after averaging 8.3 points and 3.9 rebounds over 15 minutes per game in seven appearances in the Adriatic League and FIBA Europe Cup. After a Croatian Basketball Federation ruling that ultimately denied his attempt to sign with Cedevita, the Euroleague side that also happens to call Zagreb home, Zubac found himself in limbo for a time before latching on with Mega Leks in Serbia, the prospect-laden team run by his agency, BeoBasket. Unable to play in the Adriatic League because of the regulations surrounding transfers in that league, Zubac announced his intention to declare for the 2016 NBA Draft while watching from the sideline, as Mega Leks made it all the way to Adriatic League Final, where they fell to Red Star in three games, and eventually finished in third place in the Serbian league after defeating FMP in the playoffs. The talented young big man made his debut in the Serbian League on May 8th, scoring 16 points in 25 minutes in his first competitive action since January 3rd. Averaging 9.9 points and 4.7 rebounds per game in 13 games, Zubac made his presence felt down the stretch before Mega Leks fell to Red Star in the Serbian League semi-finals. Listed at 7'1 in shoes with a strong 265-pound frame a reported 7'4 wingspan, and what appears to be a massive standing reach, it isn't difficult to see what makes Zubac an intriguing prospect on first glance. Possessing outstanding size for a center at any level, Zubac matches his physical stature with an intriguing blend of fluidity and skill. He isn't particularly explosive and his body has plenty of room to mature, but he has very promising physical tools for the NBA level. Playing a fairly significant role when he's actually been able to get on the floor this season, Zubac does most of his damage in the post, but also contributes as a finisher, proving fairly nimble rolling to the rim, running the floor in transition, and crashing the offensive glass. Zubac wasn't a workhorse on the block at the senior level relative to the torrid pace he scored at in the U19 World Championship, but he did pour in 31 points against Borac Cacak in late May. He averaged 3.4 offensive rebounds per-40 minutes pace adjusted on the season, making a number of hustle plays imposing his size throughout the year, but was a force in that regard at the junior level and could be capable of more. Zubac's most impressive skill offensively, and the one most relevant to the role he seems likely to play in the NBA early on, is likely his ability to utilize his physical tools around the rim. Combining impressive mobility with great hands and soft touch, Zubac is a reliable target for his guards to throw the ball to, and shot a 63% around the rim in the half court this season according to Synergy Sports Technology. Able to dunk the ball with little effort thanks to his huge standing reach, Zubac also converts half hooks and quick flips over the defense at a decent rate, having little trouble getting off shots inside thanks to his size. His misses this season frequently came when defenders were able to get into his body and legs when he elevated to score, and he figures to have room to grow as a scorer around the rim as he works towards maxing out his frame and athleticism and gains experience against quality competition. In the post, Zubac uses solid footwork to score off of quick spins, step-throughs, and up-and-unders. He leaves some shots short and rushes things a bit at times, but has a budding arsenal of back to the basket moves that could allow him to create a bit of offense for himself down the line, particularly when considering his natural scoring instincts. Away from the rim, the 19 year old center is relatively limited at this stage. He isn't the kind of big man who initiates much offense or is asked to make decisions with the ball as a passer. He's a solid free throw shooter (career 69%), but doesn't attempt many shots outside of the paint, although he shows some touch on turnaround jumpers from the post and seems to have some potential as a midrange threat down the road. Potential defines Zubac's outlook at this stage more than perhaps any of the other early entrant international big men jockeying for position at the end of the first round. He has a strong foundation of tools that leave room for optimism in a number of facets of the game offensively, but isn't overly polished in any one area at the moment and lacks a degree of high level experience given how little high level basketball he's played up until this point. Zubac's potential defensively isn't quite as exciting. He's not a great shot blocker or rebounder despite his size, as his lack of explosiveness limits him against high level competition. Zubac shows the ability to move his feet fairly well at times guarding the midrange, but generally appears limited defending away from the rim, which coupled with his lack of seasoning on this end, proved particularly problematic in the pick and roll. Experience should help him clean up some of his mental lapses, and hopefully help him improve as a defensive rebounder. His sheer size figures to be an asset when he's contesting shots around the rim, but there are question marks about the type of paint protector he can be early on in his career, unless his awareness and physicality improves significantly with added coaching. It has been a wild 10 months for Ivica Zubac who emerged as a prospect and missed much of the season to injury and contractual issues, yet still figures to be in play for teams selecting in the first round. A hard worker who speaks good English and wishes to come to the NBA as soon as he can, the young Croatian figures to have an easier time making the leap across the Atlantic should he leave his name in the draft, as he has very friendly NBA outs in his new contract. Though he may be early in his development as a pro, the potential is obviously there for the big man to grow into a contributor down the road. Whether he stays in this draft or not, Zubac is a prospect worth keeping an eye on in the coming years.